                                                                                               60

Clinical History: includes available lab results or indications by the treating physician, if any.
AI support: This tool uses only the X-ray image to predict the probability of each potential
pathology of interest. The tool is based on state-of-the-art machine learning algorithms
developed by a leading team of researchers at Stanford University.
Responses
For each patient and pathology, we will ask for both an assessment and a treatment decision:

  1. We will first ask for your assessment of the probability that each condition is present in
     a patient. Please consider all pathologies and findings that would be relevant
     in a radiology report for the patient. You should express your uncertainty
     about the presence of one or many conditions by appropriately choosing the
     probability. Note that it is possible that the patient has multiple such conditions or
     none of them.

  2. If you determine that a pathology may be present, we may ask you to rate the severity
     and/or extent of the disease on a scale.

  3. Finally, when relevant we will ask whether you would recommend treatment or follow
     up according to the clinical standard of care if you determine that the pathology may
     be present. The first two responses are diagnostic while the third is a clinical decision.
     We are aware that a single physician or radiologist typically does not perform both
     tasks. However, for this study, we ask that you respond to the best of your ability in
     both of these roles.

Browser Compatibility
This platform supports desktop versions of Chrome, Firefox, and Edge. Important features
on non-supported browsers (including Safari) are missing and we discourage their use for this
experiment. In addition, the platform does not support any mobile devices and the platform
will perform poorly on mobile. If you encounter any issues during the experiment, please
send an email to DiagnosticAI@mit.edu and we will follow-up quickly.


Hierarchy

The interface uses a hierarchy to categorize various thoracic conditions. It will be useful to
familiarize yourself with this hierarchy before you start, but you may also revisit the hierarchy
at any time throughout the experiment by clicking the help tab in the upper right corner.
