                                                                                                             17

that are more specific, which may be further subdivided in some cases. The groups all
correspond to a standard class of pathologies. For instance, “airspace opacity” is distinct
from a “cardiomediastinal abnormality.” In the main text we focus on the parent categories
with AI predictions and drop further subdivisions from the analysis. We refer to those as
top-level pathologies. Our results are robust to including the lower-level pathologies in the
analysis as we show in appendix C.4. The interface categorizes thoracic pathologies into
groups by type to ease data entry. For example, allowing the user to simultaneously set the
assessed probability of each disease in a specific category to zero.18 In addition, we elicited
an overall bottom-line assessment of whether the radiologists considers the case normal or
not.
We also ask for a binary “treatment/follow-up” recommendation for each pathology that
is not definitively ruled out.19 We will interpret this input as a∗r (s). In a real clinical
setting, a recommendation to follow-up could trigger the treating physician to prescribe
additional medical tests or interventions with potential costs and benefits. Thus, an optimal
recommendation trades off the cost of false positives and false negatives when recommending
an action as in section 2. The probabilistic assessments with the follow-up decision will allow
us to estimate radiologists’ relative cost of false positives and false negatives.
In addition to pr (ω = 1 |s ) and a∗r (s), we record active time, response times, and any click-
stream data that results from the interaction with the interface. The participants are not
explicitly informed about this monitoring, and there are no explicit time limits. Our ex-
periment runs remotely, and participants connect to a server, which hosts the interface and
records responses. The interface has been extensively tested beforehand on different browsers
by conducting pilots with every company we recruited the participants from.20
  18
      Our radiology collaborators grouped pathologies into eight exclusive parent categories based on their
type. Each group has children that are more specific, which may be further subdivided in some cases. The
groups all correspond to a standard class of pathologies. For instance, an “airspace opacity” is distinct from a
“cardiomediastinal abnormality.” The more specific disease of “bacterial pneumonia” manifests as an airspace
opacity. This structure reduced the burden on our participants, and we piloted the interface with several
radiologists specializing in the interpretation of chest X-rays. Prior clinical research on AI in chest X-Ray
image classification has used similar hierarchies (see Seah et al., 2021, for example).
   19
      The binary treatment/follow-up decision is only asked for pathologies where a follow-up is clinically
relevant. This includes all pathologies with AI assistance.
   20
      This interface is browser-based and built using the o-tree framework Chen et al. (2016). Since we
are not directly communicating with our participants we also deploy a device fingerprinting service from
fingerprint.com to ensure that there are no repeat participants.
