                                                                                              64

Demonstration
The brief video below walks you through the interface and a few examples. [At this stage
participants saw an instruction video which can be found here]
Consent
You have been asked to participate in a study conducted by researchers from the Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology (M.I.T.) and Harvard University.
The information below provides a summary of the research. Your participation in this re-
search is voluntary and you can withdraw at any time.

  1. Study procedure: We will ask you to examine a number of chest x-rays. We will vary
     both the amount of information provided about the patient and the availability of an
     AI support tool.

  2. Potential Risks & Benefits: There are no foreseeable risks associated with this study
     and you will receive no direct benefit from participating.

Your participation in this study is completely voluntary and you are free to choose whether
to be in it or not. If you choose to be in this study, you may subsequently withdraw from
it at any time without penalty or consequences of any kind. The investigator may withdraw
you from this research if circumstances arise.
Privacy & Confidentiality
The only people who will know that you are a research subject are members of the research
team which might include outside collaborators not affiliated with MIT. No identifiable infor-
mation about you, or provided by you during the research, will be disclosed to others without
your written permission, except: if necessary to protect your rights or welfare, or if required
by law. In addition, your information may be reviewed by authorized MIT representatives
to ensure compliance with MIT policies and procedures.
When the results of the research are published or discussed in conferences, no information
will be included that would reveal your identity.
Questions
If you have any questions or concerns about the research, please feel free to contact us directly
at diagnosticAI@mit.edu.
Your Rights
You are not waiving any legal claims, rights or remedies because of your participation in this
research study. If you feel you have been treated unfairly, or you have questions regarding
