                                                                                                            27

4.3    Discussion

We find that AI assistance does not improve the performance of our participants on average,
even though the AI predictions are more accurate than the majority of radiologists, and
that radiologists respond to this assistance. However, the average treatment effects mask
important heterogeneity – AI assistance improves performance for a large set of cases, but
also decreases performance in many instances. These results point to biases in the use of AI
predictions which we will further investigate in section 5.
We also find that humans have access to valuable contextual information, suggesting that
full automation has its drawbacks. But, the biases above – especially in conjunction with
our finding that radiologists take longer when given AI assistance – undercut this potential
information advantage in a setup that involves AI assistance. Thus, the problem of how best
to deploy AI assistance may be non-trivial and the optimal solution may involve selective
automation and/or AI assistance. Section 6 analyzes this problem.
Appendix C.4 shows that the results are qualitatively robust to a variety of alternative
analyses. The results are similar when we split the analysis by experimental design and when
we only focus on the initial across-comparison (using design 1 and 2), although the latter leads
to estimates that are imprecise. Alternative ground-truth measures – including a leave-one-
out ground truth based on the assessments of our experimental participants and a continuous
ground truth, which simply averages the assessments of the ground-truth labelers–also yield
similar conclusions. The qualitative patterns of the treatment effects are unchanged if we
calibrate each radiologists’ assessments to the ground-truth before conducting the analysis.
Finally, incentives for accuracy, which are cross-randomized in designs 1 and 3, do not have
significant effects either.


5     Automation/Own-Information Bias/Neglect

An upshot of the results in section 4 is that our participants deviate from the baseline of a
Bayesian with correct beliefs about the joint distribution of their own information and the
AI signal. In this section, we model and estimate systematic deviations from this benchmark
– which we will refer to as Bayesian25 for short – and determine the implications of these
deviations on utilizing human expertise and AI predictions.
  25
     The omission of the qualifier “with correct beliefs” slightly abuses terminology because a possible expla-
nation of the deviations we have documented is that our participants are Bayesians but update their beliefs
using an incorrect model for the joint distribution of sA , sE and ω. We will entertain this possibility below.
