                                                                                                      41

6.1   Computing the Trade-off Between Decision Loss and Costs of Human Effort

Consider a policy τ (·) that chooses between full automation (AI), radiologist with access to
AI (E + AI), or radiologist without access to AI (E), as a function of the AI signal sA
                                                                                      i . The
optimal policy which minimizes the sum of the expected decision-loss (costs of false positives
and false negatives) and the monetized time cost of using human radiologists solves:


                      τ ∗ (sA
                            i ) = arg       min          −m · Viτ (sAi ) + w · Ciτ (sAi ) .           (8)
                                        τ ∈{E,E+AI,AI}
                                                                                                                
The first term contains the expected decision-loss from a modality given by Viτ (sAi ) = E Virτ (sA )       sA
                                                                                                             i   ,
                                                                                                  i
which is the expected diagnostic quality averaging over radiologists and cases given the modal-
ity, preferences for false positives and false negatives, and the AI signal. Preferences for false
positives and false negatives are allowed to vary by pathology but are the same across modal-
ities. We estimate these preferences using data on the binary treatment recommendations
of the radiologists in our experiment, given their probability assessments. Details of this
preference estimation step are available in appendix C.6. The average cost of false negatives
across pathologies is three times the cost of a false positive. Since we do not know the dollar
cost of a false negative (m), we will present results for varying values of m.
                                                                                             
The second term in the objective function contains Ciτ (sAi ) = Cirτ (sA ) sAi , which is the
                                                                         i
expected radiologist time for a given modality. If the case is fully automated, this time
cost is zero and otherwise those time costs are based on our experimental estimates, which
show that radiologists spend more time on cases when presented with AI predictions. For
the interpretation of the magnitudes, we translate both radiologists’ expected time cost and
the expected decision loss into dollars. For the costs of radiologist time, we set w = $4 per
minute based on a payment of $10 per case and an average time per read of 2.5 minutes.
We solve this problem by training a classification tree that assigns the case to a modality
conditional on the AI signal sA,i . We use 55% of cases as training data for the decision tree,
20% of cases for validation, and 25% in the test set. For this exercise, we focus on two top-
level pathologies, cardiomediastinal abnormality, and airspace opacity. Finally, to quantify
the drawbacks of biased humans, we will contrast the solution from such a system when the
decisions under E + AI are as observed in the data with the system that uses the Bayesian
assessments for E + AI.
An important restriction in this formulation of the delegation problem is that the signal
received by the expert is exogeneous and does not respond to the availability of AI. This
assumption rules out models of endogenous information acquisition, for example, rational
