                                                                                                         13

3.2.2   Design 2 (Figure B.2)

Radiologists diagnose each patient case in each of the four information environments in the
second design. For the moment, set aside concerns arising from the feature that the same
radiologist encounters the same case multiple times. This design will allow us to estimate
an empirical analog to equation (5). It also has the added benefit of controlling for both
case-radiologist heterogeneity because, unlike in the previous design, we can conduct within-
case-radiologist comparisons across treatments.
Because radiologists repeatedly encounter cases, we need to address the potential for order
effects due to memory. For example, radiologists might anchor on their previous assessment
using AI predictions or contextual information and might remember this information the
next time the same case is encountered. We, therefore, limit radiologists’ ability to remem-
ber either their diagnosis or previously provided information by using a “washout” interval
between two encounters of the same case.12 Specifically, radiologists complete the experi-
ment in four sessions that are separated by at least two weeks. Each session is similar to the
first design: radiologists diagnose fifteen cases in each of the four information environments
with no case repeated within a session. Across sessions, the information environment under
which a given case is diagnosed is permuted. Thus, by the end of the fourth session, each of
the sixty cases is diagnosed exactly once in each information environment. Our results are
consistent with the washout being effective – radiologists’ predictions do not move towards
the AI prediction if it was provided in a prior session but do if it is provided in the current
session (see figure C.28).


3.2.3   Design 3 (Figure B.3)

In the third design, we address residual concerns about the order effects of radiologists
diagnosing cases with AI before those without AI–whether due to anchoring, memory, or
experimenter demand–by having participants diagnose fifty cases, first without and then
with AI assistance. Within each block, clinical history is randomly provided in either the
first or second half of images.
This design also allows us to conduct within case-radiologist comparisons. The potential
disadvantage of this design is that we cannot distinguish order effects from the effect of
providing AI. This issue is unavoidable given the guiding principle that participants receive
weakly more information about a case during a repeat encounter. However, we can test for
  12
    This principle has been used in computer science (Seah et al., 2021; Conant et al., 2019; Pacilè et al.,
2020).
