                                                                                                                                                                                                            25

                                                      Figure 2: Conditional treatment effect given radiologist prediction
                                            (a) Deviation from Ground Truth                                                                         (b) Incorrect Decision
 ATE of AI on deviation from ground truth




                                             .05                                                                                               .1




                                                                                                           ATE of AI on incorrect decision
                                                                                                                                             .05
                                              0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                            -.05
                                                                                                                                             -.05

                                             -.1
                                                                                                                                              -.1


                                            -.15                                                                                             -.15
                                                   [0,0.2)   [0.2,0.4) [0.4,0.6) [0.6,0.8)       [0.8,1]                                            [0,0.2)   [0.2,0.4) [0.4,0.6) [0.6,0.8)       [0.8,1]
                                                          Radiologist probability bins without AI                                                          Radiologist probability bins without AI


Note: Panel (a) shows the conditional average treatment effect of providing AI information on the absolute value of difference
between the radiologist probability and the ground truth. Panel (b) shows analogous treatment effects on incorrect diagnosis,
where a correct diagnosis is defined as the treatment recommendation matching the ground truth. Both these treatment effects
are conditional on the ranges of the expert’s prediction constructed using the no AI assistance. Standard errors are two-way
clustered at the radiologist and patient-case level. The error bars depict 95% confidence intervals. Robustness to experimental
design is in appendix C.4.1.



While AI assistance can help uncertain experts, we find that providing uncertain AI predic-
tions reduces performance. As with the analysis of conditional treatment effects given expert
predictions, we estimate conditional treatment effects given AI predictions by partitioning
                                           
cases into five bins based on π ωi = 1|sA i . Figure 3 presents the estimates, pooling data
from all three experimental designs. When the AI provides a confident prediction (e.g. either
close to zero or close to one) performance is significantly improved. We see that in the lowest
bins of AI signals, the deviation from the ground truth is reduced. In the second highest
bin we also see a marked, though not statistically signficant, improvement in performance.
However, in the middle range of signals, where the confidence of the AI is low, radiologists’
diagnostic performance and probability of making a correct decision is lower when AI infor-
mation is provided. This result reinforces the conclusion that radiologists err when updating
their beliefs.
