                                                                                                                            114

C.5.5                   Linearity of the Update Model

To assess the appropriateness of linear relationship in the model of radiologist updating
with AI we estimate non-parametric versions of the model and plot the empirical analog
of Figure 5 along with the joint distribution of signals. To do so, we estimate a boosted
                                               pr (ωi =1|sA ,sE )
tree that estimates the radiologist’s reported p ω =0|sAir ,sEir as a non-parametric function of a
                                                r( i      ir ir )
constant, the update term, and the reported probability without AI assistance. We impose
monotonicity constraints on the update term and the reported probability without AI. We
then plot the frontier in which radiologists are indifferent between following up on the case-
pathology and not following up. We compare this frontier to the cutoff frontier of a Bayesian
decision maker, the radiologist without AI assistance, and the radiologist with AI assistance
under the linear model.

                                               Figure C.38: Empirical analog of figure 5
                           (a) Airspace Opacity                                 (b) Cardiomediastinal Abnormality

                    4
                                                     Estimated Linear
                                                     Estimated Non-linear

                    2
            |ω=1)
       π(sA |ω=0)
   A




                    0
   log π(s




               −2


               −4
                 −4           −2          0              2                  4
                                               E
                                        π(ω=1|s )
                                    log π(ω=0|s E)




Note: For the two top-level pathologies with AI assistance, we plot estimates of the indifference frontier where radiologists are
indifferent between following up on a patient-case and not following up on a patient-case for a Bayesian decision maker, the
linear model estimated in equation 7, a non-parametric version of equation 7, and the human only without AI assistance. In
addition, we plot the joint distribution of the signals log-likelihoods.




C.5.6                   Individual Heterogeneity

Here we show the distribution of individual estimates of equation (7). Each estimate contains
sampling error, as each radiologist is only reading a subset of cases. Therefore, the unadjusted
distribution of individual-level estimates is overdispersed as it is a convolution of the true
individual-level parameters and the sampling noise. We adjust for this over-dispersion using
