                                                                                                                         35

dence neglect when updating beliefs. As prefaced earlier, although the humans’ and AI’s
signals are not conditionally independent given the ground truth, humans may act as-if they
are. We will therefore estimate and select between models that vary the set of signals condi-
tioned on in the update term. For example, in the case when radiologists behave as if sA  i and
 E                                                                                   E
sir are independent conditional on ωi , the update term drops the conditioning on sir . We can
vary the pathologies across the set of models considered when constructing I (ci ).29 Including
these models in our selection approach will also tell us whether radiologists’ assessments are
separable across different pathologies.
                                                                                                    h                i
The correct model of behavior satisfies the conditional moment restriction E εirt | sE             A
                                                                                           i,−r , si    =
            E
0, where si,−r collects the signals of the radiologists other than r in our experiment. For
estimation, we utilize unconditional moment restrictions based on functions of sE              i,−r and
                                                                                           π (        i )
                                                                                               ωi =1|sA
sA
 i  that closely   mimic  the  terms   in   equation     (7). Our instruments include  log π ( ωi =0|sA
                                                                                                          ,
                                                                                                      i )
                                      π ( ωi =1|sA ,sE )
and leave-one-out averages of log π ω =0|sAi ,sEir′ for radiologists other than r that use various
                                        ( i i ir′ )
             E
proxies for sir′ based on different sets of pathologies I (ci ) that are conditioned on.30 Empirical
analogs of the resulting moment conditions are used to estimate the model using GMM.
We will employ the model-selection procedure proposed in Andrews and Lu (2001) to select
between non-nested models. This method utilizes the J-statistic of the GMM objective
function, which is adjusted for the number of moments and parameters that are included
in the model. The selection criterion, MMSC-BIC, penalizes models that reject a greater
number of moment restrictions.


5.4    Results

Table 3 presents estimates from six models, which is a subset of the models we consider.31
The first three models do not utilize clinical history when made available to the participants
to construct the proxy for sEir whereas the last three models do. We consider three models
in each of these two sets by varying I (ci ). The first corresponds to the case when the signal
  29
     The conditionally independent case corresponds to the extreme case in which I (ci ) = ∅, whereas the
Bayesian model includes all pathologies.
  30
     Specifically, we construct fourteen instruments. The first is a constant and the second is the average of
    π ( ωi =1|sE
               ir ′ )
log π ω =0|sE         for all r′ ̸= r. The remaining twelve construct the average of log π( ωi =1|sir′ )          ′
                                                                                         π( ωi =0|sir′ ) for all r ̸= r by
      ( i      ir ′
                    )
varying the conditioning variables sir . The different sets of conditioning variables in sir are presented in the
second panel of appendix table C.21. These sets are used because they are the relevant terms in at least one
of the models that we consider in the testing procedure.
  31
     See table C.20 in the appendix for the results from all models. Results from all pathologies with AI
are qualitatively similar (see table C.21). These analyses were pre-registered except for the model selection
exercise, which was not included in the pre-analysis plan.
