                                                                                            65

your rights as a research subject, you may contact the Chairman of the Committee on the
Use of Humans as Experimental Subjects, M.I.T., Room E25-143B, 77 Massachusetts Ave,
Cambridge, MA 02139, phone 1-617-253 6787.
I understand the procedures described above. By clicking next, I am acknowledging my
questions have been answered to my satisfaction, and I agree to participate in this study.
Interface questions
[Each of these questions has a true of false response which was entered through a radio button.
Participants are not able to start the experiment without answering each question correctly.]
Before beginning the experiment, we would like to confirm a few facts through the following
comprehension questions. Please answer True or False to the following questions.
1) The algorithm’s prediction is based on information from both the X-ray scan as well as
the clinical history.
2) When the algorithm does not show a prediction, it is because the algorithm thinks the
pathology is not present.
3) The follow up decision refers to any treatment or additional diagnostic procedures that
one would conduct based on the findings of the report.
4) Two patients with the same probability score for a condition ought to always receive the
same “follow-up” recommendation.
5) When a condition at a higher level of the hierarchy receives a less than ten percent chance
of being present then all the lower level conditions within this branch automatically receive
a zero probability of being present.
6) If the algorithm says that the probability of a pathology is present with 80% probability,
it means that the AI predicts 80 cases out of 100 have the pathology present.
7) Suppose your assessment is that the patient definitely has either edema or consolidation,
and you believe that edema is twice as likely as consolidation. Then you would assign 66.67%
to edema and 33.33% to consolidation:
8) I should only indicate pathologies and findings that would be relevant in a radiology report
for the patient.


Interface

Figure B.7 is an example of the clinical history indications available to the participating
radiologists under the relevant treatment condition. The thoroughness of the information
