                                                                                                           69

B.3      Additional Details on the AI Algorithm

The training data is a set of tuples of images and labels. These training datasets typically
rely on human input to assign the labels, which indicate whether or not a specific pattern
or object is present in the image. Training is conducted through stochastic gradient descent.
These algorithms build on the nested structure of the neural net to compute gradients com-
putationally efficient via chain rule. Each training step is performed on a small batch of
data so that the algorithm does not have to consider the entire dataset for each optimization
step. After each round of optimization on the training set, the model performance is assessed
through predictions on a hold-out validation sample. Most humans are able to recognize cars,
pedestrians, and traffic light, which means that training datasets for common classification
tasks are easy to come by. The same is not true for medical imaging. Classifying disease
based on X-rays, CT scans, and retina scans requires the input of highly trained experts.
Recently, several researchers have released large training datasets of medical images with
disease labels that are extracted from written clinical descriptions (Irvin et al., 2019). The
neural net has a DenseNet121 architecture. A DenseNet is a type of convolutional neural
network that utilizes dense connections between layers through Dense Blocks; in these blocks,
we connect all layers with matching feature-map sizes directly with each other. Images are
supplied in a standardized format of 320 × 320 pixels. For optimization the researchers use
the Adam optimizer with default β-parameters of β1 = 0.9, β2 = 0.999 and learning rate 1
× 10−4. The batch size is fixed at 16 images. The training is performed for 3 epochs. The
full training procedure is described in (Irvin et al., 2019).


C       Data Appendix

C.1      Balance Tests

We verify that the randomization occurred as expected through various balance and ran-
domization tests. Figure C.9 plots the distribution of treatment probabilities by patient-case
in Design 1. We also plot a placebo distribution that samples from the null distribution to
support the claim that the randomization occurred as expected. To test this formally, we
present balance tests for Design 1 and Design 2 in Table C.1 and Table C.2 , respectively.32
For these balance tests, we calculate the average covariates across the four treatment arms
and report p-values from the test of the joint null that the four means are equal. For Design
2, these are done within sessions as patients are balanced by design across all sessions.
 32
      Design 3 is balanced by design, as each radiologist reads the same cases with and without AI assistance.
