                                                                                             12

3.2     Experimental Designs

Our experiment varies the information available to diagnose patient cases—participants may
or may not receive AI assistance and access to the clinical history. The X-ray is shown under
all information conditions. We expose our participants to all four possible information con-
ditions: X-ray only, henceforth XO; clinical history without AI, henceforth CH ; AI without
clinical history, henceforth AI ; and both clinical history and AI, henceforth AI+CH.
There are two objectives of our experiment. The first is to compute the treatment effects of
AI and CH on diagnostic quality and radiologist time. The second is to analyze systematic
deviations from the Bayesian benchmark.
Both these objectives are complicated by the likely heterogeneity in radiologist skills. For
estimating treatment effects, radiologist heterogeneity implies that a design that randomizes
treatments only across radiologists will require a large participant pool except for extremely
large effect sizes. Our participants are highly paid experts, making this approach expensive.
And, as explained in section 2, across-radiologist variation in information treatments is not
tailored for the second objective. We would ideally know how a given radiologist changes her
assessment for the same case under a different information condition.
Our approach to address these challenges is to use a combination of three different experi-
mental designs, each with certain advantages and disadvantages. Appendix B.1 illustrates
the three design variations.


3.2.1   Design 1 (Figure B.1)

In the first design, participants are assigned to a random sequence of the four information
treatments. Each information condition is assigned fifteen cases at random without repe-
tition. Participants read all 15 cases in one information environment before moving to the
next one.
This design builds in both across- and within-participant variation in information treatments.
The within-participant variation has greater power because it controls for participant het-
erogeneity at the potential cost of order effects. The concern of order effects is both testable
and mitigated by the randomization of treatment sequence across subjects.
This first design is well-suited to estimate treatment effects of our information environments.
However, as mentioned earlier, it is not ideal for estimating an empirical analog to equation
(5) because no case is encountered twice.
