                                                                                                           5

anchoring effects.4 Most of our treatment effect analysis pools data from the different designs
whereas our model estimates of belief updating only uses data where a radiologist reads the
same case both with and without AI assistance.
We find that AI assistance does not improve humans’ diagnostic quality on average even
though the AI predictions are more accurate than almost two-thirds of the participants in
our experiment. Moreover, the zero average effect cannot be explained by the participants
ignoring these predictions – we observe that radiologists’ reported probabilities move sig-
nificantly towards the AI’s predictions with AI assistance. Instead, the zero effect of AI
assistance is driven by heterogeneous treatment effects – diagnostic quality increases when
the AI is confident (e.g. the predicted probability is close to zero or one) but decreases
when the AI is uncertain. In parallel, AI assistance improves diagnostic quality for patient
cases in which our participants are uncertain, but decreases quality for patient cases in which
our participants are certain. In contrast, providing clinical history does improve diagnostic
quality suggesting that humans have additional valuable information that has not yet been
incorporated into AI predictions.
An upshot of the results is that information available only to radiologists is useful, but
human experts do not correctly combine their information with AI predictions. Specifically,
the result that AI assistance can reduce predictive performance cannot be rationalized if our
participants are Bayesians with correct beliefs because the AI assistance provides weakly
more information to the decision-maker.
Motivated by these results, we analyze two types of deviations from the benchmark model
with correct updating to link errors in probabilistic judgement and optimal deployment of
AI assistance.5 The first type of deviation occurs when agents do not put correct weights on
their own information and AI information. We describe this deviation using the approach
introduced in Grether (1980; 1992) (see Benjamin, 2019, for a review) to define biases in
belief updating. We say that an agent exhibits own-information bias if they over-weights
their baseline information when provided with AI assistance and own-information neglect if
they under-weights it. Analogously, an agent exhibits automation bias if they over-weights
the AI information relative to their own and automation neglect if they under-weights it.
The second type of deviation occurs if agents utilize an incorrect joint distribution of their
   4
     To ensure that our results do not rely on the wash-out being successful, a third design obtains an
assessment with AI assistance only after assessments without AI assistance have been obtained. However,
this third treatment is subject to order effects. We find no evidence of order effects on diagnostic quality
although there is evidence that familiarity with the interface increases the speed with which participants go
through patient cases.
   5
     We will remain agnostic about whether the deviations we consider are due to non-Bayesian updating or
can be explained by Bayesian updating with incorrect prior beliefs.
