                                                                                                  6

own information and AI information – an example of such a deviation is correlation neglect
(Enke and Zimmermann, 2019). Our theoretical analysis shows that if agents exhibit only
automation neglect, then AI assistance unambiguously increases diagnostic quality. All other
forms of biases we consider result in AI assistance reducing diagnostic quality for certain
realizations of AI and own information.
We then use the data from our experiment to estimate empirical analogs of the deviations
described above and select the model that best describes the treatment effects we document.
This exercise requires us to solve several challenges unique to a naturalistic setting where the
experimenter does not control the information structure. We find that in the model that best
describes our data, agents exhibit automation neglect and act as if their own information
and AI predictions are independent (conditional on the truth), even though this is not the
case. Interestingly, we do not find evidence of substantial own-information bias or neglect.
Finally, we take our data to estimate the trade-off between diagnostic quality and radiologist
time when AI predictions can be selectively utilized, and design an optimal human-AI collab-
orative system. For each pathology and conditional on the AI prediction for that pathology,
our experiment allows us to compute both the diagnostic quality and time taken if a patient
case is diagnosed by the AI, a randomly chosen radiologist without AI assistance, and a radi-
ologist assisted with the AI prediction. We use these data to train a classification algorithm
that yields the frontier of diagnostic quality and total radiologist time. The results from this
exercise mirror our treatment effect analysis – because radiologists take more time with AI
and do not correctly incorporate the AI’s information, the majority of cases are optimally
decided either by the radiologist or the AI alone but not by the radiologist with access to AI.

Related Literature
A growing body of literature in computer science has explored the predictive performance
of humans versus machine learning algorithms, with radiology often serving as a key area of
application (Rajpurkar et al., 2018, 2017). Additionally, the study of human-AI collaboration
has become an increasingly important facet of medical AI research (Tschandl et al., 2020;
Reverberi et al., 2022). For comprehensive overviews of these areas, see Rajpurkar et al.
(2022); Hosny et al. (2018); Zhou et al. (2021); Lai et al. (2021). Research on the effectiveness
of human-AI collaboration is evolving, with notable studies in radiology including Rajpurkar
et al. (2020); Kim et al. (2020); Park et al. (2019); Seah et al. (2021); Fogliato et al. (2022). An
active literature studies whether AI assistance benefits radiologists, and which radiologists
benefit the most (Rajpurkar et al., 2020; Seah et al., 2021; Ahn et al., 2022; Sim et al.,
2020; Gaube et al., 2023). In contrast to prior studies, we recruit a large group of high-
