attributing these changes to GenAI; and the junior employment decline is driven primar-
ily by slower hiring rather than increased separations. While these patterns align with
forward-looking adjustments, our data do not allow us to test this channel directly. One
potential implication is that if firms overestimate the near-term automation capabilities
of GenAI, the resulting decline in junior employment may ultimately prove temporary.
    We conclude by noting several limitations. Our adoption definition captures deliber-
ate integration of GenAI into firm workflows, but does not account for “silent” adoption,
such as employees using GenAI tools without firm integration. Therefore, our definition
can be thought of as conservative: more likely to misclassify adopters as non-adopters
(false negatives) than the reverse (false positives). Such misclassification, by assigning
treated firms to the control group, is likely to attenuate estimates toward zero. However,
silent adoption may have distinct implications for employment dynamics from the delib-
erate, firm-level adoption we capture.7 An additional caveat is that, as with any empirical
analysis based on cross-sectional variation, our results do not necessarily generalize to the
aggregate economy without additional assumptions, due to the “missing intercept prob-
lem” (see Acemoglu and Restrepo, 2020; Wolf, 2023; Moll and Hanney, 2025).
    The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews related liter-
ature. Section 3 develops the conceptual framework. Section 4 describes the data and
descriptive patterns. Section 5 presents our empirical strategy and main findings. Section
6 concludes.



2     Related Literature

Our study relates to three main strands of the literature: (i) skill-biased technological
change, (ii) firm-level adoption of AI technologies, and (iii) the emerging evidence on the
labor-market impacts of GenAI.


Skill-Biased Technological Change: The classic literature on skill-biased technologi-
cal change (SBTC) shows that computers and automation have historically displaced
    7 We partly address this concern in Supplemental Appendix A.4 by constructing an augmented adoption

measure that combines integrator postings with worker position descriptions classified as integrator roles;
the headline result is robust to this alternative definition.




                                                    8
