net changes in total headcount.9
   These studies highlight that pre-2023 adoption of AI technology often entailed internal
reallocation rather than aggregate job loss. In contrast, our paper provides U.S. evidence
on the implications of firm-level adoption during the first years of widespread Generative
AI diffusion (2023–2025). By focusing not only on overall labor demand but on within-
firm seniority composition, we provide evidence that GenAI-adopting firms reduce junior
employment while leaving senior employment unaffected.


The Effects of Generative AI on the Labor Market:                Finally, a rapidly growing empiri-
cal literature examines the labor-market effects of GenAI. Experimental studies generally
find that GenAI complements less-experienced workers by boosting their productivity.
For example, Noy and Zhang (2023) show that access to ChatGPT substantially reduces
completion time and improves output quality, with especially large benefits for lower-
ability workers. Brynjolfsson et al. (2025b) similarly find that GenAI assistance in cus-
tomer support raised productivity by roughly 14 percent on average, with the largest
gains for novices. Dell’Acqua et al. (2023) report comparable improvements in consulting
workflows. Moreover, Cui et al. (2025) find especially high productivity gains and adop-
tion rates for less experienced software developers. Related field-experimental evidence
in Dell’Acqua et al. (2025) shows that adding a GenAI copilot reshapes teamwork and the
division of expertise, shifting routine cognitive work to the tool and reorienting human
effort toward higher-level tasks. These findings are consistent with the view that GenAI
can act as a “leveler,” narrowing productivity gaps between less and more experienced
workers (Autor, 2024).
   A second wave of studies uses large-scale labor-market data to track employment dy-
namics across occupations by GenAI exposure. Closest to our work, Brynjolfsson et al.
(2025a) show that since the late-2022 debut of GenAI, employment of young entry-level
workers (ages 22-25) in the most AI-exposed occupations fell by about 13 percent rel-
ative to trend, while more experienced workers in those occupations saw stable or ris-
   9 Two related studies examine the effects of Generative AI adoption. Humlum and Vestergaard (2025) pro-

vide evidence from Denmark, linking large-scale worker surveys on GenAI adoption to matched employer-
employee data. Despite rapid adoption, they do not find effects of adoption on earnings and hours, sug-
gesting that labor-market impacts in Denmark remain minimal. Chen and Stratton (2025) analyze firm-level
adoption of GitHub Copilot and Cursor using detailed engineering workflow data, documenting effects on
productivity, task allocation, and organizational collaboration.




                                                   10
