  Generative AI as Seniority-Biased Technological Change:
           Evidence from U.S. Résumé and Job Posting Data*

                                   Seyed M. Hosseini†                        Guy Lichtinger‡


                                             First Version: August 31, 2025
                                                This Version: June 6, 2026


                                                              Abstract

             This paper studies whether generative AI (GenAI) constitutes seniority-biased tech-
        nological change, disproportionately reducing demand for junior workers. We de-
        velop a conceptual framework in which GenAI adoption reduces junior labor de-
        mand through task displacement and labor-saving productivity gains. We test the
        framework’s mechanisms and implications using U.S. résumé data covering 65 mil-
        lion workers at more than 280,000 firms, allowing us to track firm-level employment
        by seniority. GenAI adoption is identified through text analysis that detects ‘GenAI
        integrator’ job postings, signaling active GenAI implementation by firms. Follow-
        ing adoption, junior employment declines in adopting firms relative to non-adopters,
        while senior employment trends remain largely unchanged. This decline is concen-
        trated in occupations most exposed to GenAI and is driven primarily by slower hiring
        rather than increased separations. Moreover, in adopting firms, GenAI-exposed tasks
        become increasingly less likely to appear in junior task bundles.

    * We are extremely grateful to Lawrence Katz, Jesse Shapiro, and Ludwig Straub for their continued guidance and feedback on this
project. We are also deeply thankful to David Autor, Erik Brynjolfsson, Gabriel Chodorow-Reich, Oren Danieli, Eric Gold, Jonathon
Hazell, Ori Heffetz, David Lagakos, Amanda Pallais, Santiago Medina, and Austin Zheng for their invaluable discussions and advice
throughout various stages of this work. We additionally thank Netanel Ben-Porath, Shotaro Beppu, Martin Bernstein, Olena Bogdan,
Bharat Chandar, Ruyu Chen, Fiona Chen, Rupsha Debnath, Cameron Deal, Aristotle Epanomeritakis, Sarah Gao, Jay Garg, Shao-Yu
Jheng, Xianruo Kang, Iris Li, Saketh Prazad, Ewan Rawcliffe, Emanuel Schertz, Peyman Shahidi, Ragini Srinivasan, James Stratton,
and Katherine Wang as well as participants in the Macro Lunch at Harvard, Digital Economy Lab seminar series at Stanford University,
the Economics of AI Reading Group at MIT, the Midwest Economics Association Annual Meetings 2026, the Macro Seminar at the Boston
Fed, the MAD Conference at Columbia Business School, the Departmental Seminar at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, the Applied
Economics Seminar at Tel Aviv University, and the AI in the Workplace Conference at the University of Chicago for their valuable feedback
and discussion. All errors are our own.
Latest Version: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=5425555.
    † Harvard University. Email: shosseinimaasoum@fas.harvard.edu
   ‡ Harvard University. Email: guylichtinger@g.harvard.edu




                                                                   1
