workers in routine, codifiable tasks while complementing more complex ones. Autor
et al. (2003) documented how computerization reduced demand for routine cognitive
and manual work, leading to job polarization. Acemoglu and Autor (2011) emphasized
that technology replaced mid-skill tasks while raising demand for high-skill labor, and
Autor and Dorn (2013) showed that this was accompanied by growth in low-skill service
jobs. More recently, Acemoglu and Restrepo (2022) estimated that automation explains
a large share of rising U.S. wage inequality since 1980. While this literature focuses on
differences across education or occupations, our paper extends the analysis to seniority
within firms. We ask whether GenAI is a “seniority-biased” technological change, dispropor-
tionately affecting juniors who typically perform simpler, more routinized tasks even in
high-skill fields.8


Evidence from Firm-Level AI Adoption:               A related strand of work—closest to our em-
pirical approach—examines the implications of firm-level AI adoption. Babina et al.
(2024) construct a measure of firm-level AI investment by combining online résumé data
from Cognism with Burning Glass postings. Their results suggest that for U.S. firms in the
2010s, AI-adopting firms grow faster in sales, employment, and innovation, with work-
forces becoming more educated and technologically oriented. Acemoglu et al. (2022) sim-
ilarly use Burning Glass postings from 2010–2018 to identify AI-exposed establishments
based on tasks and skills in vacancies. They find that exposure is associated with lower
hiring at the establishment level, but aggregate occupation/industry effects are too small
to detect over that period. More recently, Hampole et al. (2025) use similar data and NLP
methods to develop measures of firm-level AI adoption and task-level exposure, which
we closely follow in our analysis. They infer adoption from résumé text, using a large
language model to extract in-house AI applications and map them to O*NET tasks via
sentence embeddings, thereby identifying tasks exposed to AI. They find that between
2010 and 2023, higher exposure corresponds to lower labor demand, but that firms’ pro-
ductivity gains offset job losses by expanding employment elsewhere, resulting in muted
   8 While it is usually not the main focus, the SBTC literature has also examined variation by age/experi-

ence. For instance, Acemoglu and Autor (2011) show that the surge in the college wage premium during the
1980s was concentrated among less experienced workers, whereas from the mid-1990s onward, the increase
was driven primarily by more experienced cohorts. They argue this pattern is consistent with changes over
time in relative supply by experience and education (and imperfect substitution across experience groups).




                                                    9
