degree are underrepresented in the RPS relative to the CPS, while individuals with household
income of $50,000 or less are overrepresented. The bottom panel of Table A.1 compares em-
ployment status in the CPS and RPS, statistics that have not been targeted in the sampling
procedure. Employment rates are very similar across the two surveys, although individuals
classified as unemployed according to the CPS definition are somewhat overrepresented in the
RPS.


A.2   Weighting

As described in the body of the paper, we asked Qualtrics to administer the survey to a sample
of respondents who match the U.S. population along a few broad demographic characteristics:
gender, five age bins (18-24, 25-34, 35-44, 45-54, 55-64), race and ethnicity (non-Hispanic White,
non-Hispanic Black, Hispanic, other), education (high school or less, some college or associate
degree, bachelor’s degree or more), marital status (married or not), number of children in
the household (0, 1, 2, 3 or more), three income bins for household income over the last
12 months (<$50k, $50k-100k, >$100k), and four Census regions. Table A.1 compare the
sample composition between the pooled August and November RPS and the CPS along the
demographics targeted in the sampling procedure for our main survey. The tables look very
similarly for each survey wave separately, including the June pilot, and are available upon
request. As discussed in the paper, we also compare at the bottom of the table employment
status in the CPS and RPS, as well as the demographic composition for the employed. None
of this latter sets of moments were targeted during the sampling of survey respondents.

   Using the iterative proportional fitting (raking) algorithm of Deming and Stephan (1940),
we construct sampling weights to ensure the RPS matches the CPS sample proportions for
the same set of demographic characteristics included in the Qualtrics sampling targets for the
overall sample, i.e., independent of employment status. However, we use more disaggregated
categories for education and marital status, and we interact all categories with gender. In
particular, for education, we distinguish between less than high school, high school graduate
or equivalent, some college but no degree, associate degree, bachelor’s degree, and graduate
degree. For marital status, we distinguish between married + spouse present, divorced, never
married, and ”other.” We also condition on relationship status (spouse living in the same
household, partner living in the same household, other).

   In addition, our sampling weights replicate the employed-at-work rates, the employment
rates, and the labor force participation rates in each of the subsequent months. We match
these key labor market statistics not only in the aggregate but also conditional on demographic
characteristics. More specifically, we match the employed-at-work rate, the employment rate,
and the labor force participation rate for the current month by gender, age (18-24, 25-34, 35-

                                                2
