    These results are consistent with the notion that existing task-based exposure predictions
may not perfectly identify which occupations would benefit from genAI. For example, while
managers have similar predicted exposure than administrative occupations, many more admin-
istrative workers report that genAI is not useful for their job. Collectively, our takeaway is that
existing task-based exposure measures are informative but incomplete: while they do capture
broad patterns in genAI adoption, more work is needed to accurately identify which jobs would
benefit from genAI.

   Another potential reason that task-based exposure predictions may not perfectly predict
adoption is that some jobs may face various barriers to adoption. In our question about why
workers did not adopt genAI, a second set of explanations relates to adoption barriers: “My
employer does not allow me to use genAI; I am unsure whether my employer allows me to use
genAI; I feel pressure from coworkers to not use genAI; I have privacy or security concerns;
I am unsure how to use genAI for my job.” We define the share of an occupation who does
not use genAI because of adoption barriers as the share of all workers in that occupation who
ranked at least one of these options in their top two reasons for not using genAI.

    Figure 6d plots genAI adoption against the share who reported that they faced adption
barriers. This correlation (-0.30) is lower than in the previous figure, indicating that variation
in adoption barriers only accounts for a small share of the overall variation in adoption. At the
same time, two occupations stand out in terms of a high share of workers facing adoption bar-
riers: legal / social services and office / administrative workers. Workers in these occupations
may be especially likely to deal with sensitive information that makes employers reluctant to
allow genAI use, or leads workers to self-regulate in the absence of formal policies. These find-
ings suggest that managers can play a role in genAI adoption by setting clear usage guidelines
and helping employees navigate privacy and security issues.

   In addition to minimizing barriers to genAI adoption, we also find evidence that firms and
managers can increase genAI adoption through active encouragement. The RPS asked workers
“Does your employer encourage you to use Generative AI for your job?”. Employer encourage-
ment is highly correlated with adoption: 86% of respondents whose employer encourages genAI
use report adopting it, compared to just 13% among those whose employer does not.

    We conclude this section by jointly analyzing the role of demographics, occupation, and
employer encouragement. Table 1 presents results from a linear regression of an indicator
for genAI use last week on these variables. Demographic controls (sex, age, and education)
alone account for 8% of the variation in adoption. Adding controls for occupation group
and predicted exposure by occupation (Eloundou et al., 2024) increases this share to 12%.
Occupation controls decrease the magnitude of most demographic coefficients, and in particular
reduce the coefficients on Bachelor’s Degree and Graduate Degree by roughly one third. Finally,


                                                16
