                  The Rapid Adoption of Generative AI∗

                         Alexander Bick                                Adam Blandin
               Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis & CEPR                Vanderbilt University

                                         David J. Deming
                                    Harvard Kennedy School & NBER




                                           October 27, 2025



                                                 Abstract

       Generative artificial intelligence (AI) is a potentially important new technology, but its
       impact on the economy depends on the speed and intensity of adoption. This paper
       reports results from a series of nationally representative U.S. surveys of generative AI
       use at work and at home. As of late 2024, 45% of the U.S. population age 18-64 uses
       generative AI. Among employed respondents, 27% used generative AI for work at least
       once in the previous week: 10% used it every workday, and 17% on some but not all
       workdays. Relative to each technology’s first mass-market product launch, work adoption
       of generative AI has been as fast as the personal computer (PC), and overall adoption
       has been faster than either PCs or the internet. Between 1 and 7% of all work hours are
       currently assisted by generative AI, and respondents report time savings equivalent to
       1.4% of total work hours. Potential productivity gains vary widely by industry, and firm
       climate and policies play an important role in adoption patterns.

       JEL Codes: J24, O33
       Keywords: Generative AI, Technology Adoption, Labor Productivity




   ∗
    Contact: alexander.bick@stls.frb.org; adam.blandin@vanderbilt.edu; david deming@harvard.edu. We
thank Kevin Bloodworth II and Eli Tsung for excellent research assistance. The views in this paper are those
of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis or the Federal
Reserve System.
