C       SWAA

The Survey of Working Arrangements and Attitudes (SWAA) is a monthly cross-sectional
survey of Americans aged 20 to 64 that has been running since May 2020. In December 2024,
we incorporated a subset of our questions on genAI usage into the SWAA. Similar to the
RPS, the SWAA is fielded online, though it is conducted by a different commercial survey
provider (IncQuery) and targets a sample representative of the U.S. population aged 20–64 by
age, sex, income, race, and region. Table C.1 shows the analogue of Table A.1 and compares
the unweighted SWAA to the weighted CPS. In addition to the targeted variables by the
SWAA, we also include live-in-partner (in lieu of marital status) and the number of children.
Individual income in the last 12 months is not collected by the SWAA. Similar to the RPS,
the SWAA matches the targeted (and non-targeted) quotas fairly closely and the unemployed
are somewhat overrepresented. We note that the SWAA uses a single question to determine
employment status, which differs from the more detailed protocol used in the CPS and RPS,
and map the SWAA’s employment categories into the CPS definitions.2


C.1     Weights

To maximize comparability between the RPS and SWAA, we construct our own set of weights
rather than using the weights provided by the SWAA.3 In particular, we use again the iterative
proportional fitting (raking) algorithm of Deming and Stephan (1940). We include all the
demographic variables shown in Table C.1 and also interact all of them with gender. The
sampling weights further replicate the employed-at-work rate, the employment rate, and the
labor force participation rate in the aggregate and interacted with the demographic variables
used for overall weighting. To ensure a sufficient sample size for these latter interactions, we
use a broader group for age (20-29, 30-39, 40-49, 50-64) and a dummy variable for whether
there is a child in the house. We also include the broad occupation groups in our weighting
scheme, and as for the RPS, without any interaction.


C.2     Validation

Figure C.1 shows that similar to the RPS the occupation and industry distribution in SWAA
closely aligns with CPS in December 2024.
    2
     In particular, the SWAA asks: “Last week what was your work status?” with the following answer options
(a) Working for pay, whether on business premises or working from home, (b) Still employed and paid, but
not working, (c) Unemployed, looking for work, (d) Unemployed, awaiting recall for my old job, and (e) Not
working, and not looking for work.
   3
     Notably, the employment-to-population ratio calculated using the SWAA’s provided weights is with 59%
much lower than in the raw SWAA data (76.2%) and in the CPS (75.7%).


                                                    14
