point-identification. We say that g is scale-invariant if its value is the same under any re-scaling of
the units of y by a positive constant a.

Definition 1. We say that the function g is scale-invariant if it is homogeneous of degree zero, i.e.
gpy1 , y0 q “ gpay1 , ay0 q for all a, y1 , y0 ą 0.

       We next describe point-identification. We consider parameters that are identified without plac-
ing restrictions on treatment effect heterogeneity. As in Fan et al. (2017), this is formalized by
considering parameters that can be learned if we know the marginal distributions of Y p1q and Y p0q,
but not the full joint distribution of pY p1q, Y p0qq.
       To connect treatment effect heterogeneity to the joint distribution of potential outcomes, con-
sider the simple case of a randomized experiment. By examining the outcome distribution for the
treated group, we can learn the marginal distribution of Y p1q. Likewise, by examining the outcome
distribution for the control group, we can learn the marginal distribution of Y p0q. If treatment
effects were assumed to be constant, then for each observed treated unit with outcome Y p1q, we
could infer their untreated outcome as Y p0q “ Y p1q ´ τ , where τ is the average treatment effect.
Hence, the joint distribution of pY p1q, Y p0qq would be identified. However, if we allow for treatment
effect heterogeneity, then for an observed treated unit with outcome Y p1q, we do not know what
their value of Y p0q would be, and thus we do not know the joint distribution of pY p1q, Y p0qq. This
winds up being especially important in settings with an extensive margin, since when we observe the
distribution of outcomes for treated units, it means that we do not know which of the treated units
would have had a zero outcome under the control condition, and thus it is difficult to disentangle
the intensive and extensive margins.17
       With that intuition in mind, we now give a formal definition. Recall that P denotes the joint
distribution of pY p1q, Y p0qq, while PY pdq denotes the marginal distribution of Y pdq. We then say θg
is point-identified if it depends on P only through the marginals PY p1q , PY p0q .

Definition 2 (Identification). We say that θg is point-identified from the marginals at P if for every
joint distribution Q with the same marginals as P (i.e. such that QY pdq “ PY pdq for d “ 0, 1),
EP rgpY p1q, Y p0qqs “ EQ rgpY p1q, Y p0qqs. For a class of distributions P, we say that θg is point-
identified over P if for every P P P, θg is point-identified from the marginals at P .

We will denote by P` the set of distributions on r0, 8q2 . Thus, θg is point-identified over P` if it is
always identified when Y takes on zero or weakly positive values. Our next result formalizes that it
is not possible to have a parameter of the form EP rgpY p1q, Y p0qqs that is both scale-invariant and
point-identified over P` .
Proposition 2 (A trilemma). The following three properties cannot hold simultaneously:

  (a) θg “ EP rgpY p1q, Y p0qqs for a non-constant function g : r0, 8q2 Ñ R that is weakly increasing
         in its first argument.
  17
    In Appendix C, we discuss a variety of structural approaches that impose assumptions restricting the joint
distribution, thus allowing us to separately point-identify the effects for the two margins.


                                                      13
