             Figure 1: Change from multiplying outcome by 100 versus extensive margin effect




                                             0.75
                    Actual Absolute Change


                                                                  45 Deg Line
                                             0.50




                                             0.25




                                             0.00

                                                    0.00   0.25                 0.50          0.75
                                                              |Extensive Margin| * log(100)


Note: This figure shows the relationship between the sensitivity of treatment effects using arcsinhpY q to re-scaling
the units of Y and and the size of the extensive margin. For each replicated paper, this figure plots the absolute
value of the change in the estimated treatment effect from multiplying the outcome by 100 (i.e. the absolute value of
the Raw Change column in Table 1) on the y-axis against logp100q times the absolute value of the extensive margin
effect on the x-axis. If the approximation in (2) were exact, all points would lie on the 45 degree line.


of the 10 treatment effect estimates again changing by more than 100%. These results underscore
the fact that Proposition 1 applies to all log-like transformations, including both arcsinhpY q and
logpc ` Y q for any constant c.


3         Sensitivity to scaling for other ATEs
Our results so far show that ATEs for transformations that are defined at zero and approximate
logpyq are arbitrarily sensitive to scaling. What other options are available when there are zero-
valued outcomes? To help delineate alternative options, in this section we provide a result showing
what properties a parameter defined with zero-valued outcomes can have. Specifically, we establish
a “trilemma”: When there are zero-valued outcomes, there is no parameter that is (a) an average of
individual-level treatment effects of the form θg “ EP rgpY p1q, Y p0qqs, (b) scale-invariant, and (c)
point-identified.16 Any approach for settings with zero-valued outcomes must therefore abandon
one of the properties (a)–(c); in Section 4 below we discuss several approaches that relax one (or
more) of these requirements.
         Before stating our formal result, we must make precise what we mean by scale-invariance and
    16
    Of course, not all parameters of the form EP rgpY p1q, Y p0qqs can be interpreted as an average of individual
treatment effects. For example Er1rY p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0ss is the fraction of individuals whose outcomes is positive
under both treatments, rather than a treatment effect. Our results apply to all parameters of this form, regardless
of whether they are average treatment effects per se.



                                                                       12
