should transform the units of their outcome so that most of the non-zero values of Y are large.
The results in this section suggest—perhaps somewhat counterintuitively—that if one rescales the
outcome such that the non-zero values are all large, the behavior of the ATE will be driven nearly
entirely by the effect of the treatment on the extensive margin and not by the distribution of the
potential outcomes conditional on being positive. Moreover, the rescaling can be chosen to generate
any magnitude for the ATE if the treatment affects the extensive margin.
Remark 7 (Zero extensive margin). Proposition 1 applies to settings where treatment has a non-
zero effect on average on the extensive margin. This raises the question of whether the use of
log-like transformations is justified in the absence of an extensive margin treatment effect. Our
Proposition 3 below implies that the ATE for any log-like transformation will be sensitive to the
units of the outcome for at least some distribution with strictly positive outcomes, but perhaps
not arbitrarily so in the sense of Proposition 1 (see Section 3.1 for further discussion). Moreover, if
one were confident that the extensive margin effect were exactly zero for all individuals, one could
recover the ATE in logs for individuals with positive outcomes by simply dropping individuals with
Y “ 0. The use of log-like transformations is thus somewhat difficult to justify even in settings
without an extensive margin.

2.3      Empirical illustrations from the American Economic Review
We illustrate the results in this section by evaluating the sensitivity to scaling of estimates using the
arcsinhpY q transformation in recent papers in the American Economic Review (AER). In Novem-
ber 2022, we used Google Scholar to search for “inverse hyperbolic sine” among papers published
in the AER since 2018. We searched for papers using arcsinhpY q rather than logp1 ` Y q since
the former are easier to find with a simple keyword search. Our search returned 17 papers that
estimate treatment effects for an arcsinh-transformed outcome.12 Of these, 10 explicitly interpret
the results as percentage changes or elasticities, and 6 of the remaining 7 do not directly interpret
the units. See Appendix Table 1 for a list of the papers and relevant quotes. Of the 17 total papers
using arcsinhpY q, 10 had publicly available replication data that allowed us to replicate the original
estimates and assess their sensitivity to scaling.13 For our replications, we focus on the first specifi-
cation using arcsinhpY q presented in a table in the paper, which we view as a reasonable proxy for
the paper’s main specification using arcsinhpY q.14
       We assess the sensitivity of these results by re-running exactly the same procedure as in the
original paper, except replacing arcsinhpY q with arcsinhp100 ¨ Y q. Thus, for example, if the original
paper estimated a treatment effect for the arcsinh of an outcome measured in dollars, we use the
same procedure to re-estimate the treatment effect for the arcsinh of the outcome measured in cents.
  12
      We consider papers with both binary and non-binary treatments, as our theoretical results extend easily to
non-binary treatments; see Remark 3. Seven of the 10 papers we replicated used a binary treatment.
   13
      We include one paper where there was a slight discrepancy between our replication of the original result and the
result reported in the paper that only affected the third decimal place.
   14
      We use the first coefficient presented in a figure for one paper without any tables in the main text using arcsinhpY q.
If the first specification is a validation check (e.g. a pre-trends test), we use the first specification of causal interest.



                                                             10
