incompatible with P pY p1q “ 0q ą 0 if β1 ą 0. By similar logic, the model is also incompatible
with P pY p0q “ 0q ą 0 if β1 ă 0. In settings where there is point-mass at zero, the model that
Bellemare and Wichman (2020) show gives β1 an interpretation as a semi-elasticity will therefore
typically be rejected by the data. It is also worth noting that even if there are no zeros in the data,
the model in (C.2) will generally be sensitive to units, in the sense that if (C.2) holds for Y measured
in dollars, it will generally not hold when Y is measured in cents. The validity of the interpretation
of β1 as an elasticity thus depends on having chosen the “correct” scaling of the outcome such that
(C.2) holds.
       Similar issues apply if we consider alternative transformations on the left-hand side of (C.1).
For example, Thakral and Tô (2023) consider versions of (C.1) that replaces arcsinhpY q with the
power function Y k . They then consider the implied “semi-elasticities” of the form ηpy0 q “ β1 {pky0k q.
The parameter ηpy0 q has the interpretation as a structural semi-elasticity when d has a contant
effect on Y k . Specifically, if D is continuous and the structural equation

                                            Y pd, U qk “ β0 ` dβ1 ` U,                                         (C.3)
                        `B           ˘
holds, then ηpy0 q “      Bd Y pd, U q   {Y pd, U q evaluated at Y pd, U q “ y0 , so ηpy0 q corresponds to the
semi-elasticity of Y pd, U q with respect to d. However, as with (C.2), (C.3) is generally incompatible
with settings in which P pY pd, U q “ 0q for multiple values of d. For example, if β1 ą 0, then
Y p0, U q ě 0 implies that Y p1, U q ą 0. Equation (C.3), which gives a causal interpretation to ηpβ0 q
as a semi-elasticity, will thus generally be incompatible with settings in which some units have Y “ 0
under multiple treatment statuses.

C.2       Cohn et al. (2022)
Cohn et al. (2022) consider structural equations of the form

                                               Y “ exppα ` DβqU.                                               (C.4)

When ErU | Ds “ 1, they show that Poisson regression is consistent for β, whereas regressions of
logp1 ` Y q or logpY q on D may be inconsistent for β.52 Although Cohn et al. (2022) do not consider
a potential outcomes interpretation of β, we can give β a causal interpreation if we impose that the
potential outcomes take the form

                                          Y pd, U q “ exppα ` dβqU pdq,                                        (C.5)

where ErU pdqs “ 1. Under (C.5), it follows that exppβq “ ErY p1qs{ErY p0qs, i.e. the parameter
  52
    We thank Kirill Borusyak for an insightful discussion on this topic. Relatedly, in an influential paper,
Santos Silva and Tenreyro (2006) consider the structural equations model Yi “ exppXi1 βqUi where ErUi | Xi s “ 1,
and show that Poisson regression consistently estimates β while a regression using log on the left-hand side does not,
although they do not provide any formal results on log-like transformations.




                                                         11
