a? Proposition 4 in the appendix shows that the change in the ATE from multiplying the outcome
by a large factor a is approximately logpaq times the treatment effect on the extensive margin,11

             EP rmpaY p1qq ´ mpaY p0qqs “ pP pY p1q ą 0q ´ P pY p0q ą 0qq ¨ logpaq ` oplogpaqq.                          (2)

Thus, the ATE for mpY q will tend to be more sensitive to finite changes in scale the larger is the
extensive margin treatment effect. This implies that sensitivity analyses that assess how treatment
effect estimates for mpY q change under finite changes in the units of Y —or equivalently, under finite
changes of c in logpc ` Y q—are roughly equivalent to measuring the size of the extensive margin.
Remark 3 (Extension to continuous treatments). We focus on ATEs for binary treatments for expo-
sitional simplicity, although similar results apply with continuous treatments. In Appendix B.2, we
show that when d is a continuous treatment, any treatment effect contrast that averages mpaY pdqq
                                                         ş
across possible values of d (i.e. a parameter of the form ωpdqErmpaY pdqs) is arbitrarily sensitive
to scaling when there is an extensive margin effect.
Remark 4 (Extension to OLS estimands). It is worth noting that the results in this section show
that population ATEs for mpY q are sensitive to the units of Y . These results are about estimands,
and thus any consistent estimator of the ATE for mpY q will be sensitive to scaling (at least asymp-
totically). Thus, our results apply to ordinary least squares (OLS) estimators when they have
a causal interpretation, but also to non-linear estimators such as inverse-probability weighting or
doubly-robust methods. Nevertheless, given the prominence of OLS in applied work, and the fact
that OLS is sometimes used for non-causal estimands, in Appendix B.3 we provide a result specif-
ically on the scale-sensitivity of the population regression coefficient for a random variable of the
form mpY q on an arbitrary random variable X. Our result shows that the coefficients on X will
be arbitrarily sensitive to the scaling of Y when the coefficients of a regression of 1rY ą 0s on X
are non-zero. Thus, the OLS estimand using a logarithm-like function on the left-hand side will be
sensitive to scaling even when it does not have a causal interpretation.
Remark 5 (Statistical significance). Equation (2) shows that P pY p1q ą 0q ´ P pY p0q ą 0q is the
dominant term in θpaq for large a, which suggests that the t-statistic for an estimator of θpaq will
generally converge to that for the analogous estimator of the extensive margin effect, P pY p1q ą
0q ´ P pY p0q ą 0q. Proposition 7 in the appendix formalizes this intuition when the treatment
effects are estimated via OLS: As a is made large, the t-statistic for θ̂paq converges to that for the
extensive margin estimate. In our empirical analysis of papers in the American Economic Review
below, we find that indeed the t-statistics for estimates of the ATE using arcsinhpY q are typically
close to those for the extensive margin effect.
Remark 6 (When most values are large). Researchers often have the intuition that if most of the
values of the outcome are large, then ATEs for transformations like logp1 ` Y q or arcsinhpY q will
approximate elasticities, since mpY q « logpY q for most values of Y . Indeed, in an influential paper,
Bellemare and Wichman (2020) recommend that researchers using the arcsinhpY q transformation
 11
      We say f paq “ opgpaqq if limaÑ8 |f paq{gpaq| “ 0. That is, as a Ñ 8, |f paq| grows strictly slower than |gpaq|.


                                                             9
