2006; Wooldridge, 2010). The researcher might also consider alternative normalizations of the
outcome that lead to intuitive units, e.g. expressing the outcome in per-capita units or converting
it to a rank with respect to some reference distribution. Next, we suppose the researcher would like
to capture concave preferences over the outcome; for example, the researcher might consider income
gains to be more meaningful for individuals who are initially poor. In this case, it is natural to
directly specify how much the researcher values a change along the extensive margin relative to the
intensive margin—e.g., that a change from 0 to 1 is worth an x percent change along the intensive
margin. Finally, suppose the researcher is interested in separately understanding the effects of the
treatment along both the intensive and extensive margins. In this case, the researcher may target
separate parameters for the two margins—e.g., ErlogpY p1qq ´ logpY p0qq | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0s, the
average effect in logs for individuals with positive outcomes under both treatments, captures the
intensive margin. Separate effects for the two margins are not generally point-identified, but can
be can be bounded using the method in Lee (2009) or point-identified with additional assumptions
(Zhang et al., 2008, 2009).
      Section 5 provides a blueprint for estimating these alternative parameters in practice by apply-
ing our recommended approaches to three recent empirical applications, including a randomized
controlled trial (RCT) (Carranza et al., 2022), a difference-in-differences (DiD) setting (Sequeira,
2016), and an instrumental variables (IV) setting (Berkouwer and Dean, 2022).

Related work. The use of log-like transformations for dealing with zero-valued outcomes has a
long history. The use of the logp1 ` Y q transformation dates to at least Williams (1937), while
Bartlett (1947) considers both the logp1 ` Y q and inverse hyperbolic sine transformations.3 More
recent papers by Burbidge et al. (1988) and Bellemare and Wichman (2020), among others, provide
results for arcsinhpY q that are frequently cited in economics papers using this transformation.4
      Previous work has illustrated in simulations or selected empirical applications that results for
particular transformations such as logp1 ` Y q or arcsinhpY q may be sensitive to the units of the
outcome (Aihounton and Henningsen, 2021; de Brauw and Herskowitz, 2021). In concurrent work,
Mullahy and Norton (2023) show theoretically that the marginal effects from linear regressions
using logp1 ` Y q or arcsinhpY q are sensitive to the scaling of the outcome, with the the limits of the
marginal effects approaching those of either a levels regression or a (normalized) linear probability
model, depending on whether the units are made small or large. We complement this work by
proving that scale-dependence is a necessary feature of any identified ATE that is well-defined
with zero-valued outcomes, and that the dependence on units is arbitrarily bad for transformations
that approximate logpY q for large values of Y . Thus, it is not possible to fix the issues with
logp1 ` Y q or arcsinhpY q by choosing a “better” transformation or using a different estimator. We
also complement previous empirical examples by providing a systematic analysis of the sensitivity
to scaling for papers in the American Economic Review using arcsinhpY q.
  3
                                           ?
    Bartlett (1947) proposes using arcsinhp Y q.
  4
    MacKinnon and Magee (1990) propose transformations of the form arcsinhpyζq{ζ, where ζ is estimated by as-
suming arcsinhpyζq{ζ is normally distributed conditional on covariates.


                                                     4
