worked to yearly hours worked. When the treatment has an extensive margin effect, the ATE for
mpY q can thus be made large in magnitude by re-scaling Y by a large factor a. By contrast, if
we re-scale Y by a small factor a « 0, such that the resulting outcomes are close to zero, then
mpY q « mp0q, and so the ATE for mpY q will be small. By varying the units of the outcome, we
can thus obtain any magnitude for the ATE for mpY q.
   Our theoretical results also imply that if we re-scale the units of the outcome by a finite factor
a ą 0, the ATE for a log-like transformation mpY q will change by approximately logpaq times
the effect of the treatment on the extensive margin. This result implies that sensitivity analyses
that explore how the estimated ATE for mpY q changes with finite changes in the units of Y —or
equivalently, how the ATE for logpc ` Y q changes with the constant c—are essentially indirectly
measuring the size of the treatment effect on the extensive margin.
   We illustrate the practical importance of these results by systematically replicating recent
papers published in the American Economic Review that estimate treatment effects for arcsinh-
transformed outcomes. In line with our theoretical results, we find that treatment effect estimates
using arcsinhpY q are sensitive to changes in the units of the outcome, particularly when the exten-
sive margin effect is large. In half of the papers that we replicated, multiplying the original outcome
by a factor of 100 (e.g. converting from dollars to cents) changes the estimated treatment effect
by more than 100% of the original estimate. We obtain similar results using logp1 ` Y q instead of
arcsinhpY q.
   What, then, are alternative options in settings with zero-valued outcomes? Our second main
result delineates the possibilities. We show that when there are zero-valued outcomes, there is no
treatment effect parameter that satisfies all three of the following properties:

 (a) The parameter is an average of individual-level treatment effects, i.e. takes the form θg “
      EP rgpY p1q, Y p0qqs, where g is increasing in Y p1q.

 (b) The parameter is invariant to re-scaling of the units of the outcome (i.e. gpy1 , y0 q “ gpay1 , ay0 q).

 (c) The parameter is point-identified from the marginal distributions of the potential outcomes.

This “trilemma” implies that any target parameter that is well-defined with zero-valued outcomes
must necessarily jettison at least one of the three properties above. Of course, the choice of target
parameter should depend on the economic question of interest. Which of the three properties the
researcher prefers to forgo will thus generally depend on their context-specific motivation for using
a log-like transformation in the first place.
   To that end, Section 4 highlights a menu of parameters that may be attractive depending on the
researcher’s core motivation. We first consider the case where the researcher is interested in obtaining
a causal parameter with an intuitive “percentage” interpretation. In this case, it may be natural to
consider a parameter outside of the class of individual-level averages of the form EP rgpY p1q, Y p0qqs.
                                    p1q´Y p0qs
One prominent option is θATE% “ ErYErY p0qs    , the ATE in levels as a percentage of the baseline
mean, which in many cases can be estimated via Poisson regression (Santos Silva and Tenreyro,


                                                     3
