can be viewed as constraining the joint distribution of potential outcomes. Observe that, for any
pair of potential outcomes pY p1q, Y p0qq, we can represent them as pY p1, U q, Y p0, U qq for some
function Y pd, uq and individual-level unobservable (or “structural error”) U . The potential outcomes
framework we work with in this paper does not impose any functional form assumptions on Y pd, uq.
Structural equation models, on the other hand, tend to specify explicit functional forms for Y pd, uq.
In what follows, we consider the implicit restrictions placed on the potential outcomes as well as
the target estimand in work related work that starts with a structural equations model.

C.1       Bellemare and Wichman (2020) and Thakral and Tô (2023)
Bellemare and Wichman (2020) consider OLS regressions of the form51

                                        arcsinhpY q “ β0 ` Dβ1 ` U.                                        (C.1)

Note that when D is binary and randomly assigned, D KK pY p1q, Y p0qq, then from the perspec-
tive of the potential outcomes model, the population coefficient β1 is the ATE for arcsinhpY q.
Bellemare and Wichman (2020) instead consider the interpretation of β1 when (C.1) is treated as
structural, i.e. if there are constant treatment effects of D on arcsinhpY q. From the perspective of the
potential outcomes model, this amounts to imposing that the potential outcomes Y pdq :“ Y pd, U q
take the form
                                     arcsinhpY pd, U qq “ β0 ` dβ1 ` U,                                    (C.2)

where the individual-level random variable U takes the same value for all values of d. Under (C.2),
we have that
                                β1 “ arcsinhpY p1, U qq ´ arcsinhpY p0, U qq.

Since arcsinhpyq « logp2yq for y large, it follows that β1 « logpY p1, U q{Y p0, U qq when Y p1, U q
and Y p0, U q are large. Thus, Bellemare and Wichman (2020) argue that β1 approximates the semi-
elasticity of the outcome with respect to d when the outcome is large. They likewise provide similar
results for the elasticity of Y pd, U q with respect to treatment when treatment is continuous. Their
results thus imply that the ATE for arcsinhpY q has a sensible interpretation as a (semi-)elasticity
when the structural equation for the potential outcomes given in (C.2) holds.
       It is worth emphasizing, however, that (C.2) will generally be incompatible with the data when
both Y p1q and Y p0q have point-mass at zero, and β1 ‰ 0. Specifically, note that (C.2) implies that
for all values of U ,
                                arcsinhpY p1, U qq ´ arcsinhpY p0, U qq “ β1 .

If β1 ą 0, for example, this implies that arcsinhpY p1, U qq ą arcsinhpY p0, U qq, and hence Y p1, U q ą
Y p0, U q, since the arcsinhpyq function is strictly increasing for y ě 0. However, since Y p0, U q ě 0
by assumption, this implies that Y p1, U q ą 0 with probability 1. Thus, the model in (C.2) is
  51
    They also consider specifications with additional covariates on the right-hand side, although we abstract away
from this for expositional simplicity.



                                                       10
