captures the ATE in logs for those who would have a positive outcome regardless of their treatment
status. The parameter θIntensive is scale-invariant but is not point-identified from the marginal
distributions of the potential outcomes (thus avoiding the trilemma in Proposition 2), and therefore
cannot be consistently estimated without further assumptions.29 However, Lee (2009) popularized
a method for obtaining bounds on θIntensive under the monotonicity assumption that, for example,
everyone with positive earnings without receiving a training would also have positive earnings when
receiving the training.30 Bounds on θIntensive can be reported alongside measures of the extensive
margin effect, such as the change in the probability of having a non-zero outcome, P pY p1q ą
0q ´ P pY p0q ą 0q. One can also potentially tighten the bounds (or restore point-identification) by
imposing additional assumptions on the joint distribution of the potential outcomes—we provide
an example of this in our application to Carranza et al. (2022) below; see Zhang et al. (2008, 2009)
for related approaches.31
         We note that the parameter θIntensive is generally distinct from the “intensive margin” marginal
effects implied by two-part models (2PMs), which were recommended for scenarios with zero-valued
outcomes by Mullahy and Norton (2023), among others. In Appendix D, we consider the causal
interpretation of the marginal effects of 2PMs, building on the discussion in Angrist (2001). Our
decomposition shows that the marginal effects from 2PMs yield the sum of a causal parameter
similar to θIntensive as well as a “selection term” comparing potential outcomes for individuals for
whom treatment only has an intensive margin effect to those with an extensive margin effect. It
thus will generally be difficult to ascribe a causal interpretation to the marginal effects of 2PMs
without assumptions about this selection.


5         Empirical applications
In this section, we focus on three concrete empirical applications to illustrate how the alternative
parameters described in Section 4 can be estimated in practice. To illustrate a range of possible
applications, we consider a randomized controlled trial, a difference-in-differences design, and an
instrumental variables design.

5.1         An RCT setting: Carranza et al. (2022)
Carranza et al. (2022) conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT) in South Africa. Individuals
randomized to the treatment group are provided with certified test results that they can show to
    29
         θIntensive also does not take the form EP rgpY p1q, Y p0qqs, although it can be written as
                                          EP r1rY p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0s logpY p1q{Y p0qqs
                                                                                        ,
                                                 EP r1rY p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0ss
where both the numerator and denominator take this form.
   30
      See, also, Zhang and Rubin (2003) for related results, including bounds without the monotonicity assumption.
   31
      We note that the Lee (2009) bounds will tend to be tight when the extensive margin effect is close to zero. As
noted in Remark 2, this is precisely the setting where ATEs for log-like transformations are relatively insensitive to
finite changes in scale.



                                                                21
