that the non-zero values of Y are very large. Then for an individual for whom treatment changes the
outcome from zero to non-zero, the treatment effect will be very large, since mpY p1qq " mpY p0qq “
mp0q. Extensive margin treatment effects thus have a large impact on the ATE when the values
of Y are made large. By contrast, changing the units of Y does not change the importance of
treatment effects along the intensive margin by much, since for Y p1q ą 0 and Y p0q ą 0, we have
that mpY p1qq ´ mpY p0qq « logpY p1q{Y p0qq, which does not depend on the units of the outcome.
       To see the roles of the extensive and intensive margins more formally, for simplicity consider
the case where P pY p1q “ 0, Y p0q ą 0q “ 0, so that, for example, everyone who has positive income
without receiving a training also has positive income when receiving the training.8 Then, by the
law of iterated expectations, we can write

ErmpaY p1qq ´ mpaY p0qqs “ P pY p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0q E P rmpaY p1qq ´ mpaY p0qq | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0s
                                                    loooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooomoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooon
                                                                                    Intensive margin

                               ` P pY p1q ą 0, Y p0q “ 0q E P rmpaY p1qq ´ mp0q | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q “ 0s .
                                                          loooooooooooooooooooooooooooomoooooooooooooooooooooooooooon
                                                                                Extensive margin


When a is large, mpayq « logpayq for non-zero values of y, and thus the intensive margin effect in
the previous display is approximately equal to EP rlogpY p1qq ´ logpY p0qq | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0s, the
treatment effect in logs for individuals with positive outcomes under both treatment and control.
This, of course, does not depend on the scaling of the outcome. However, the extensive margin
effect grows with a, since mpaY p1qq « logpaq ` logpY p1qq is increasing in a while mp0q does not
depend on a. Thus, as a grows large, the ATE for mpaY q places more and more weight on the
extensive margin effect of the treatment relative to the intensive margin. We can therefore make
|θpaq| arbitrarily large by sending a Ñ 8. By contrast, if a « 0, then mpaY pdqq « 0 with very high
probability, and thus the ATE for mpaY q is approximately equal to 0.
       It is worth emphasizing that the arbitrary scale-dependence described in Proposition 1 exists
whenever the treatment affects the probability that the outcome is zero, regardless of whether the
extensive margin is of direct economic interest or not.9 In some settings, the presence of zeros
may correspond to a discrete economic choice (e.g. not participating in the labor market), and
thus may be of direct interest. In other settings—for example, if the outcome is a yearly count
of publications which is sometimes zero for idiosyncratic reasons—the extensive margin may be a
“nuisance” rather than a direct economic object of interest.10 The result in Proposition 1 highlights
that regardless of the source of the zeros, an ATE for a log-like transformation is not interpretable
   8
      A similar argument goes through without this restriction, but then there are two extensive margins, one for
individuals with Y p1q ą 0 “ Y p0q, and the other for those with Y p0q ą Y p1q “ 0.
    9
      Without an extensive margin, ATEs for transformations mp¨q defined at zero still exhibit scale-dependence,
though perhaps not arbitrarily so. See Section 3.1 below for further discussion.
   10
      One setting where nuisance zeros may arise is when the observed outcome Y is actually a mis-measured version
of the true economic object of interest. For example, publications Y may be a noisy measure of true researcher
productivity Y ˚ ą 0. One possible remedy in this setting is to model the measurement error to recover the treatment
effect on Y ˚ rather than on Y . In a similar vein, Gandhi et al. (2023) models the measurement error in product
shares in demand estimation, which are sometimes zero in finite samples.



                                                          7
