Proportional treatment effects.           One natural approach here is to target the average propor-
tional treatment effect on the treated,

                         ErYit p1q | Di “ 1, Postt “ 1s ´ ErYit p0q | Di “ 1, Postt “ 1s
               θATT% “                                                                   .
                                         ErYit p0q | Di “ 1, Postt “ 1s

This is the percentage change in the average outcome for the treated group in the post-treatment
period.
   Identification of θATT% requires us to infer the counterfactual post-treatment mean outcome
for the treated group, ErYit p0q | Di “ 1, Postt “ 1s. Of course, one approach to obtain such
identification would be to assume parallel trends in levels. However, given that the treated and
control groups have different pre-treatment means (see the bottom panel of Table 6), it may be
unreasonable to expect that time-varying factors (e.g. the macroeconomy) have equal level effects on
the outcome. An alternative identifying assumption is to impose that, in the absence of treatment,
the percentage changes in the mean would have been the same for the treated and control group. As
in Wooldridge (2023), this can be formalized using a “ratio” version of the parallel trends assumption,

                   ErYit p0q | Di “ 1, Postt “ 1s   ErYit p0q | Di “ 0, Postt “ 1s
                                                  “                                .               (7)
                   ErYit p0q | Di “ 1, Postt “ 0s   ErYit p0q | Di “ 0, Postt “ 0s

Intuitively, (7) states that if the treatment had not occurred, the average percentage change in the
mean outcome for the treated group would have been the same as the average percentage change
in the mean outcome for the control group. Under (7), we can thus estimate the counterfactual
percentage change in the mean outcome for the treated group using the observed percentage change
for the control group.
   Table 6 shows that the sample mean of the outcome for the treated group decreased by 75%
between the pre-treatment and post-treatment periods (from 4,742 to 1,172 (MZN)). Under the
ratio parallel trends assumption (7), this suggests that the mean outcome for the treated group
would also have decreased by 75% in the absence of treatment, thus implying an estimate of 2, 602
for the counterfactual mean outcome for the treated group. The actual post-treatment mean for the
treated group is 465, which is 82% below this implied counterfactual. This implies that the tariff
reduction reduced the average bribe in the post-treatment period by 82%, i.e. θ̂ATT% “ ´0.82.
Conveniently, this estimate can also be obtained using Poisson QMLE to estimate

                         Yit “ exppβ0 ` Di ˆ Postt β1 ` Di β2 ` Postt β3 qǫit                      (8)

and then computing θ̂ATT% “ exppβ̂1 q ´ 1 “ ´0.82, as shown in column (1) of Table 6.
   We can also re-incorporate the covariates Xit by estimating

                    Yit “ exppβ0 ` Di ˆ Postt β1 ` Di β2 ` Postt β3 ` β41 Xit qǫit ,               (9)

which yields an estimate of θATT% of ´0.72, as shown in the second column of Table 6. As formalized


                                                   26
