D is unemployment. Although the ATE in logs may approximate θAvg% when the proportional effect
of the treatment is approximately constant, our results imply that it is not possible to point-identify
θAvg% when allowing for arbitrarily heterogeneous proportional effects.


4    Empirical approaches with zero-valued outcomes
Our theoretical results above imply that when there are zero-valued outcomes, the researcher should
not take a log-like transformation of the outcome and interpret the resulting ATE as an average
percentage effect: Unlike a percentage, such an ATE depends on the units of the outcome. In this
section, we highlight some other parameters that are well-defined and easily interpreted when there
are zero-valued outcomes; in Section 5 below, we show how these parameters can be estimated in
three empirical applications. Of course, any alternative parameter must necessarily drop one of the
requirements in the trilemma in Proposition 2, but the choice of which to drop may depend on the
researcher’s motivation.
    To inform our discussion of alternative parameters, it is therefore useful to first enumerate several
reasons why empirical researchers may target treatment effects for a log-transformed outcome rather
than the ATE in levels:

    (i) The researcher is interested in reporting a treatment effect parameter with easily-interpretable
units, such as “percentage changes.”

    (ii) The researcher believes that there are decreasing returns to the outcome, and thus wants
to place more weight on treatment effects for individuals with low initial outcomes. For instance,
the researcher may perceive it to be more meaningful to raise income from Y p0q “ $10,000 to
Y p1q “ $20,000 than from Y p0q “ $100,000 to Y p1q “ $110,000, yet both of these treatment effects
contribute equally to the ATE in levels.

    (iii) The researcher is interested in both the intensive and extensive margin effects of the treat-
ment, and is using the ATE for a log-like transformation as an approximation to the proportional
effect along the intensive margin.

    These three motivations suggest different ways of breaking out of the trilemma in Proposition 2.
If the goal is to achieve a percentage interpretation, then one can consider scale-invariant pa-
rameters outside of the class EP rgpY p1q, Y p0qqs. For instance, researchers can consider the ATE
in levels expressed as a percentage of the control mean, or the ATE for a normalized parameter
Ỹ that already has a percentage interpretation. Alternatively, if the goal is to capture concave
social preferences over the outcome, then it is natural to specify how much we value the inten-
sive margin relative to the extensive margin—thus abandoning scale-invariance. Finally, if the
goal is to separately understand the intensive margin effect, the researcher can abandon point-
identification (from the marginal distributions) and directly target the partially identified param-
eter E rlogpY p1qq ´ logpY p0qq | Y p0q ą 0, Y p1q ą 0s, the effect in logs for individuals with positive


                                                   15
