        Other work has considered the interpretation of regressions using arcsinhpY q or logp1 ` Y q from
the perspective of structural equations models, as opposed to the potential outcomes model consid-
ered here. This literature has reached diverging conclusions: For example, Bellemare and Wichman
(2020) conclude that coefficients from arcsinhpY q regressions have an interpretation as a semi-
elasticity, while Cohn et al. (2022) conclude that these estimators are inconsistent and advocate for
Poisson regression instead. Thakral and Tô (2023) show that the semi-elasticities implied by OLS
regressions using arcsinhpY q or logp1 ` Y q are sensitive to scale; they recommend instead the use
of power functions Y k , which they show are the only transformations (besides log) for which the
implied semi-elasticities for OLS regressions are scale-invariant. In Appendix C, we show that these
diverging conclusions stem from the fact that the structural equations considered in these papers
implicitly impose different restrictions on the potential outcomes—some of which are incompati-
ble with zero-valued outcomes—and consider different target causal parameters. This highlights
the value of a potential outcomes framework such as ours, which makes transparent what causal
parameters are identifiable and what properties they can have.
        Finally, there is a long history in econometrics of explicitly modeling the intensive and extensive
margins in settings with zero-valued outcomes, such as Tobin (1958) and Heckman (1979). Broadly
speaking, these methods impose parametric structure on the joint distribution of the potential
outcomes, which allows one to separate out the intensive and extensive margin effects of a treatment
(see Appendix C for technical details). Of course, the parametric restrictions underlying these
approaches may often be difficult to justify in practice, which perhaps has contributed to the growth
in the use of log-like transformations in place of approaches that explicitly model the extensive
margin. Our paper shows that the presence of an extensive margin should not simply be ignored
by taking a log-like transformation. It also clarifies what parameters can be learned in such cases
without imposing restrictions on the joint distribution of the potential outcomes.

1.1        Setup and notation
Let D P t0, 1u be a binary treatment and let Y P r0, 8q be a weakly positively-valued outcome.5
We assume that Y “ DY p1q ` p1 ´ DqY p0q, where Y p1q and Y p0q are respectively the potential
outcomes under treatment and control. We suppose that in some (sub-)population of interest,
pY p1q, Y p0qq „ P for some (unknown) joint distribution P . We denote the marginal distribution
of Y pdq under P by PY pdq for d “ 0, 1. We assume that neither PY p0q nor PY p1q is a degenerate
distribution at zero.


2        Sensitivity to scaling for transformations that behave like logpY q
We first consider average treatment effects of the form θ “ EP rmpY p1qq´mpY p0qqs for an increasing
function m. We note that θ corresponds to the ATE among the (sub-)population indexed by P ;
    5
    The arcsinh transformation is sometimes used in settings where Y can be negative. We impose that Y P r0, 8q,
and thus do not consider this case. See Appendix B.2 for extensions of our results to settings with continuous
treatments.


                                                       5
