1        Introduction
When the outcome of interest Y is strictly positive, researchers often estimate an average treatment
effect (ATE) in logs of the form EP rlogpY p1qq ´ logpY p0qqs, which has the appealing feature that
its units approximate percentage changes in the outcome.1 A practical challenge in many economic
settings, however, is that the outcome may sometimes equal zero, and thus the ATE in logs is not
well-defined. When this is the case, it is common for researchers to estimate ATEs for alternative
                                                                     `?           ˘
transformations of the outcome such as logp1`Y q or arcsinhpY q “ log 1 ` Y 2 ` Y , which behave
similarly to logpY q for large values of Y but are well-defined at zero. The treatment effects for these
alternative transformations are typically interpreted like the ATE in logs, i.e. as (approximate)
average percentage effects. For example, among the 11 papers published in the American Economic
Review since 2018 that interpret a treatment effect for arcsinhpY q, all but one interpret the result
as a percentage effect or elasticity.2
        The main point of this paper is that identified ATEs that are well-defined with zero-valued out-
comes should not be interpreted as percentage effects, at least if one imposes the logical requirement
that a percentage effect does not depend on the baseline units in which the outcome is measured
(e.g. dollars, cents, or yuan).
        Our first main result shows that if mpyq is a function that behaves like logpyq for large values
of y but is defined at zero, then the ATE for mpY q will be arbitrarily sensitive to the units of Y .
Specifically, we consider continuous, increasing functions mp¨q that approximate logpyq for large
values of y in the sense that mpyq{ logpyq Ñ 1 as y Ñ 8. The common logp1 ` yq and arcsinhpyq
transformations satisfy this property. We show that if the treatment affects the extensive margin
(i.e. P pY p1q “ 0q ‰ P pY p0q “ 0q), then one can obtain any magnitude for the ATE for mpY q by
rescaling the outcome by some positive factor a. It is therefore inappropriate to interpret the ATE
for mpY q as a percentage effect, since a percentage is inherently a unit-invariant quantity, while the
ATE for mpY q depends arbitrarily on the units of Y .
        The intuition for this result is that a “percentage” treatment effect is not well-defined for an
individual for whom treatment increases their outcome from zero to a positive value. For example,
in our application to Carranza et al. (2022) in Section 5, the treatment induces more people to have
positive hours worked. The percentage change in hours is then not well-defined for individuals who
would work positive hours under the treatment condition but zero hours under the control condition.
Any average treatment effect that is well-defined with zero-valued outcomes must therefore implicitly
assign a value for a change along the extensive margin. For logarithm-like transformations mp¨q, the
importance of the extensive margin is determined implicitly by the units of Y . To see why this is
the case, consider an individual who works positive hours only if they are treated, so that Y p1q ą 0
and Y p0q “ 0. Their treatment effect for the transformed outcome mpY q is mpY p1qq ´ mp0q, which
becomes larger if the units of Y are re-scaled by some a ą 1, e.g. if we convert from weekly hours
   That is, logpY p1q{Y p0qq « Y p1q´Y
    1
                                  Y p0q
                                        p0q
                                            when Y p1q{Y p0q « 1.
    2
   We found 17 papers overall using arcsinhpY q as an outcome variable, of which 11 interpret the units; see
Appendix Table 1.



                                                     2
