outcomes under both treatments. We address each of these cases in turn below, with a summary of
some possible parameters in Table 2.

                                                                     Main property
 Description               Parameter                                                     Pros/Cons
                                                                      sacrificed?

 Normalized ATE            ErY p1q ´ Y p0qs{ErY p0qs                ErgpY p1q, Y p0qqs   Pro: Percent interpretation
                                                                                         Con: Does not capture decreasing returns

 Normalized outcome        ErY p1q{X ´ Y p0q{Xs                     ErgpY p1q, Y p0qqs   Pro: Per-unit-X interpretation
                                                                                         Con: Need to find sensible X
                                          #
                                           logpyq      yą0
 Explicit tradeoff of      ATE for mpyq “                           Scale-invariance     Pro: Explicit tradeoff of two margins
 intensive/extensive                       ´x          y“0                               Con: Need to choose x; Monotone only if
 margins                                                                                      support excludes p0, e´x q
                            ”   ´       ¯                       ı
                                    p1q
 Intensive margin effect   E log YY p0q   | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0    Point-               Pro: ATE in logs for the intensive margin
                                                                    identification       Con: Partial identification


                           Table 2: Summary of alternative target parameters

Remark 8 (Statistical reasons for transforming the outcome). We focus on settings where the
researcher is interested in a parameter other than the ATE in levels. In some settings, the researcher
may be interested in the ATE in levels, but simple regression estimators may be noisy owing to a
long right-tail of the outcome (Athey et al., 2021). The researcher might then try to estimate the
ATE in levels by first estimating the ATE for a log-like transformation, and then multiplying by the
baseline mean. However, since the ATE for a log-like transformation depends on the units of the
outcome—and is thus not a true “percentage” effect—the validity of this approach for recovering
the ATE in levels will depend on the initial units of Y .21 We refer the reader to Athey et al. (2021)
and Müller (2023) for alternative approaches to estimation and inference targeted to settings where
the ATE in levels is of interest but the outcome has heavy tails.
Remark 9 (Transformation-specific identification). Another reason that researchers may consider
taking a transformation of the outcome is that a parametric assumption used for identification
may be more plausible for some functional forms than others. For example, when the outcome
is strictly positive, parallel trends in logs may be more plausible than parallel trends in levels if
time-varying factors are thought to have a multiplicative impact on the outcome. We note that
justifying parallel trends for a log-like transformation is especially tricky, however, since if parallel
trends holds for the arcsinh of an outcome measured in dollars, say, it will not generally hold for the
arcsinh of the outcome measured in cents (Roth and Sant’Anna, 2023). Thus, the parallel trends
assumption is specific to both the transformation mp¨q and the units of the outcome. Moreover,
even if the researcher is confident in parallel trends for a particular log-like transformation and unit
of the outcome, our results imply that they should not interpret the resulting ATT as an average
  21
    Even in the case where Y is strictly positive and one first estimates the ATE in logs, this approach will only
recover the ATE in levels under certain homogeneity assumptions, e.g. constant proportional effects. See Wooldridge
(1992) for related discussion.


                                                          16
