US and UK. In contrast, the most recent version of Humlum and Vestergaard (2025) found minimal

effects on entry-level earnings or hours worked in Denmark.11



3     Data Description

3.1    Payroll Data

This study uses data from ADP, the largest payroll processing firm in America. The company

provides payroll services for firms employing over 25 million workers in the US. We use this to

track employment changes for workers in occupations measured as more or less exposed to artificial

intelligence.

    We make several restrictions for our main analysis sample. We include only workers with

positive earnings, exclude part-time employees, and subset to people under age 70.12

    The set of firms using payroll services changes over time as companies join or leave ADP’s

platform. We maintain a consistent set of firms by keeping only companies that have employee

earnings records for each month from January 2021 through September 2025.

    ADP observes job titles for about 70% of workers in its system. We exclude workers without

a recorded job title. There are over 7,000 standardized job titles, including “Search engineer

optimization specialist,” “Enterprise content management manager,” and “Plant documentation

control specialist.” The company’s internal research team maps each of these job titles to a 2010

Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) code, additionally using information such as the job

description, industry, location, and other relevant data. We use these estimated SOC codes to

merge our data to occupational AI exposure measures.

    After these restrictions we have records on 3.5 and 5 million workers each month for our main

analysis sample, though we consider robustness to alternative analyses such as allowing for firms

to enter and leave the sample.

    While the ADP data include millions of workers in each month, the distribution of firms using
  11
     An important direction for future work is to reconcile differences among these recent studies, assessing the extent
they arise from differences in labor market institutions, measurement of AI adoption, statistical methodology, or
other factors.
  12
     While we observe the year of birth for each worker, for privacy reasons we do not observe the exact date of birth.
We impute month of birth from the distribution of birth months in the United States using data from the Center for
Disease Control and Prevention.




                                                           7
