occupation cells. Future work should study employment trends in other large-scale data sources

such as the American Community Survey (ACS) or data from Revelio Labs as in Hosseini and

Lichtinger (2025) and Klein Teeselink (2025).



5     Conclusion

We document six facts about the recent labor market effects of artificial intelligence.


    • We find substantial employment declines for early-career workers in occupations most exposed

      to AI, such as software development and customer support.

    • While economy-wide employment continues to grow, employment growth for young workers

      has been stagnant.

    • Entry-level employment has declined in applications of AI that automate work, with muted

      effects for those that augment it.

    • After conditioning on firm-time effects, young workers experienced a 16% relative employment

      decline in the most exposed occupations.

    • Labor market adjustments are more visible in employment than in compensation.

    • These patterns hold across various alternative analyses.


    While our main estimates may be influenced by factors other than generative AI, our results

are consistent with the hypothesis that generative AI has begun to affect entry-level employment

significantly.

    The adoption of new technologies typically leads to heterogeneous effects across workers, result-

ing in adjustment periods as workers reallocate from displaced forms of work to new forms with

growing labor demand (Autor et al., 2024). Past transitions such as the IT revolution ultimately led

to robust growth in employment and real wages following physical and human capital adjustments,

with some workers benefiting more than others (Bresnahan et al., 2002; Brynjolfsson et al., 2021).

    Tracking employment trends on an ongoing basis will help determine if the adjustment to AI

follows a similar pattern. We will continue monitoring these outcomes to assess whether the trends


                                                 16
