ADP services does not exactly match the distribution of firms across the broader US economy.

Further details on differences in firm composition can be found in Cajner et al. (2018) and ADP

Research (2025).13


3.2      Occupational AI Exposure

We use two approaches for measuring occupational exposure to AI. The first uses exposure measures

from Eloundou et al. (2024), who estimate AI exposure by O*NET task using ChatGPT validated

with human labeling. They construct occupational exposure measures by aggregating the task data

to the 2018 SOC code level. We focus on the GPT-4 based β exposure measures from their paper.

       The second approach we take uses generative AI usage data from the Anthropic Economic

Index (Handa et al., 2025). This index reports the estimated share of queries pertaining to each

O*NET task based on several million conversations with Claude, Anthropic’s generative AI model.

It aggregates the data to the occupational level based on these task shares. One feature of the

Anthropic Economic Index is that for each task it reports estimates of the share of queries pertaining

to that task that are “automative,” “augmentative,” or none of the above. We use this as an estimate

of whether AI usage for an occupation is primarily complementary or substitutable with labor.14

       We use a 2010 SOC code to 2018 SOC code crosswalk from the BLS to merge the exposure

measures to the payroll data. Table A1 shows example occupations for each AI exposure measure.


3.3      Other Data

To compare employment changes for teleworkable versus non-teleworkable occupations, we use data

from Dingel and Neiman (2020). We use the Personal Consumption Expenditure index from the

BLS to compute real earnings, indexed to October 2017. We use monthly Current Population

Survey (CPS) data as a comparison for our main findings.
  13
      Cajner et al. (2018) find a somewhat higher share of manufacturing and services firms compared to the QCEW
using data from March 2016. They also find that ADP somewhat overrepresents firms in the Northeast. In addition,
firms using ADP tend to grow faster on average than the typical firm in the US economy.
   14
      Handa et al. (2025) use Claude to classify conversations into six categories. Directive and Feedback Loop
conversations are considered Automative; Task Iteration, Learning, and Validation are considered Augmentative.
They also instruct the model to choose None of the above “liberally.” Table A2 reproduces Table 1 from Handa et al.
(2025) and shows more details about the automation and augmentation measures.




                                                        8
