have a college degree.

    Occupations with a high share of college graduates have declining employment overall, with

muted differences between more-exposed and less-exposed occupations compared to our main re-

sults. In contrast, occupations with a low share of college graduates have rising overall employment,

with the least AI-exposed occupations growing and the most exposed occupations declining in em-

ployment. Further, for lower college share occupations, the dispersion in employment outcomes is

visible in higher age groups as well, with workers up to age 40 showing separation in employment

trends by AI exposure. These findings suggest that deteriorating education outcomes cannot fully

explain our main results. They also suggest that for non-college workers, experience may serve as

less of a buffer to labor market disruption than for college workers.


Occupational Interest Rate Exposure While estimates with firm-time effects control for

overall hiring trends within firms, another possibility is that even within firms occupations with high

AI exposure have high interest rate exposure, leading to contraction in hiring. We use occupational

interest rate exposure data from Zens et al. (2020) to test for the correlation between interest rate

exposure and AI exposure. Figure A22 in fact finds that AI exposure and interest rate exposure

are negatively correlated overall, with occupations such as construction having high interest rate

exposure and low AI exposure. Figures A23 and A24 repeat our analysis separately for occupations

below and above the median in interest rate exposure. Both cases are consistent with our main

results, suggesting that occupational differences in interest rate exposure do not drive our results.


Other Robustness Checks Figures A25 and A26 show results separately for men and women.

The results are similar, suggesting that diverging prospects for men and women are not driving

our findings. Figure A27 shows that results are similar when we do not take a balanced sample of

firms. Figure A28 shows similar results when including part-time and temporary workers.27


Comparison to CPS Data A useful benchmark for our findings is to compare them to estimates

from the monthly Current Population Survey (CPS). In Online Appendix C we perform similar

analyses in the CPS, finding high levels of noise consistent with small sample sizes in fine age-
  27
     Another possibility is that employment trends reflect Covid-19 stimulus checks distorting labor supply. How-
ever, these payments were income-conditioned, and AI-exposed occupations average higher incomes (Kochhar, 2023),
making this channel unlikely in explaning our findings.


                                                       15
