1        Introduction

The proliferation of generative artificial intelligence (AI) has sparked a global debate about its

potential impact on the labor market. This discourse spans utopian predictions of enhanced pro-

ductivity, dystopian fears of widespread job displacement, and skeptical views that AI will have

minimal effects on employment or productivity. Historically, technologies have affected different

tasks, occupations, and industries in different ways, replacing work in some, augmenting others,

and transforming still others. These heterogeneous effects suggest that there may be “canaries in

the coal mine” which are harbingers of more widespread effects of AI.

        Recent discussion coincides with rapid improvements in AI capabilities and adoption. From

2023 to 2024, AI systems improved from solving 4.4% of coding problems to 71.7% on SWE-Bench,

a widely used benchmark for software engineering (Maslej et al., 2025). AI has also improved in

areas like language understanding, subject knowledge, and reasoning. A recent paper found that

current systems could match or outperform up to 47 percent of industry professionals on a pre-

defined benchmark of economically valuable tasks (Patwardhan et al., 2025). At the same time,

AI systems are increasingly widely adopted. Hartley et al. (2025) find that LLM adoption at work

among U.S. survey respondents above age 18 reached 46% by June/July 2025.1

        Given the better capabilities and widespread adoption, a central concern, amplified in recent

headlines, is whether AI is beginning to supplant human labor, particularly for younger, entry-level

workers in highly exposed professions like software engineering and customer service.2 For instance,

in May of 2025, Dario Amodei, co-founder and CEO of Anthropic predicted that AI could wipe

out roughly 50 percent of all entry-level white-collar jobs within five years (Morris, 2025).

        Despite the intensity of this debate, empirical evidence has struggled to keep pace with techno-

logical advancement, leaving many fundamental questions unanswered. This paper confronts this

empirical gap by leveraging a large-scale, high-frequency administrative dataset from ADP, the

largest payroll software provider in the United States. Our sample consists of monthly, individual-

level payroll records through September 2025, encompassing millions of workers across tens of

thousands of firms. This rich panel structure allows us to track employment dynamics with a high
    1
     Similarly, Bick et al. (2024) found that in late 2024, nearly 40% of the U.S. population age 18-64 reported using
generative AI, with 23% using it for work weekly and 9% daily.
   2
     Improved productivity of workers in an occupation could lead to either reduced or increased employment, de-
pending on, among other things, how elastic demand is for the output of those workers.


                                                          2
