51 and 5415). Results are quite similar, consistent with the above case studies showing employment

changes across various occupations. Results with firm-time fixed effects in Figure 4 further show

that our findings are robust to firm- or industry-level shocks that impact general hiring trends.

These results indicate that our findings are not specific to technology roles.


Remote Work Figures A14 and A15 show results for occupations amenable to remote work

(telework) and those that are not, according to Dingel and Neiman (2020).23 We find that, for

young workers, more exposed occupations have slower employment growth, both in teleworkable

occupations and in non-teleworkable occupations. The results for non-teleworkable occupations in

particular suggest that our findings are not driven by outsourcing or work-from-home disruptions,

at least solely.24


Longer Sample Figure A16 shows results when extending the balanced sample of firms to 2018.

This reduces the sample size and makes the data somewhat noisier. Nonetheless, the trends remain

largely ordered by exposure in the post-GPT era, whereas this is not the case before 2022. A concern

is that for the Eloundou et al. (2024) measures the most exposed quintile had slower employment

growth starting around 2020. This is not the case for the Anthropic exposure measures, shown

in Figures A17, A18, and A19. For these measures the most exposed groups have comparable

employment growth throughout the period before generative AI, with divergent trends afterwards.


Changes in Education Another possibility is that our results stem from worsening education

outcomes during the COVID-19 Pandemic, as more educated workers have greater average AI

exposure (Kuhfeld and Lewis, 2025).25 In Figure A20 we show trends for occupations in which

greater than 70% of workers have a college degree according to the 2017 American Community

Survey (ACS).26 In Figure A21 we show trends for occupations in which fewer than 30% of workers
  23
      Whether an occupation is amenable to remote work is positively correlated with AI exposure. Only two telework-
able occupations fall in the lowest quintile of estimated AI exposure according to the GPT-4 β measure. Likewise
few non-teleworkable occupations fall in the highest quintile of AI exposure. For this reason in Figure A14 we pool
together the two lowest AI exposure quintiles into one group. In Figure A15 we pool together the two highest AI
exposure quintiles.
   24
      Non-teleworkable occupations with high AI exposure include bank tellers, travel agents, and tax preparers.
   25
      Chandar (2025a) finds that declines in average skill levels for college graduates explain a sizable share of the
slowdown in the growth of the college wage gap in recent decades.
   26
      Not a single occupation in the first quintile of GPT-4 β based exposure measure has a college share above 35%,
so that quintile is excluded from the results in Figure A20.



                                                         14
