firm regardless of AI exposure. For workers aged 22-25, we find a 15 log-point decline in relative

employment for the most AI-exposed quintiles compared to the least exposed quintile, a large and

statistically significant effect. Estimates for other age groups are much smaller in magnitude and

not statistically significant. These findings imply that the employment trends we observe are not

driven by differential shocks to firms that employ a disproportionate share of AI-exposed young

workers.

    Fifth, the labor market adjustments are visible in employment more than in compensation.

In contrast to our findings for employment, we find little difference in annual salary trends by

age or exposure quintile, suggesting possible wage stickiness. If so, AI may have larger effects on

employment than on wages, at least initially, or even that AI may boost wages for as many workers

as it hurts.

    Sixth, the above facts are largely consistent across sample constructions designed to address

various alternative explanations for the core findings. Our results are not driven solely by computer

occupations or by occupations susceptible to remote work and outsourcing. We also find that the AI

exposure taxonomy did not meaningfully predict employment outcomes for young workers further

back in time, before the widespread use of LLMs, including during the unemployment spike driven

by the COVID-19 pandemic. The patterns we observe in the data appear most acutely starting

in late 2022 and early 2023, around the time of rapid proliferation of generative AI tools.3 They

hold for both occupations with a high share of college graduates and ones with a low college

share, suggesting deteriorating education outcomes during COVID-19 do not drive our results. For

non-college workers, we find evidence that experience may serve as less of a buffer to labor market

disruption, as low college share occupations exhibit divergent employment outcomes by AI exposure

up to age 40.

    While we explore a variety of alternative explanations, we caution that the facts we document

may in part be influenced by factors other than generative AI. Taken as a whole, our results are

consistent with the hypothesis that generative AI has begun to affect entry-level employment. We

intend to continue to track the data on an ongoing basis to assess whether these trends change in

the future.
   3
     In particular, OpenAI introduced ChatGPT in November 2022. It was reported to have over 100 million active
users by January 2023 and 1.7 billion website visitors in October 2023 (DeVon, 2023).




                                                      4
