much less marked differences in employment growth across AI exposure quintiles.15


4.2      Fact 2: Though overall employment continues to grow, employment growth
         for young workers has been stagnant

Overall employment in the ADP data remains robust, coinciding with a low national unemployment

rate in the post-pandemic period. However, Figure A4 suggests some leveling off in employment

growth for young workers relative to other age groups, consistent with recent discussion of a wors-

ening job market for entry-level workers (Chen, 2025; Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 2025).

       Figure A5 offers insight into how these trends relate to AI exposure. For each age group,

employment growth from late 2022 to September 2025 was 5-13% for the lowest three AI exposure

quintiles, with no clear ordering in employment growth by age. In contrast, for the highest two

exposure quintiles employment for 22-25 year olds declined by 6% between late 2022 and September

2025, while employment for workers aged 35-49 grew by over 8%. These results show that declining

employment in AI-exposed jobs is driving tepid overall emplyoment growth for workers between

the ages of 22 and 25.

       While these findings suggest divergent employment outcomes by AI exposure for young workers,

we caution the trends observed in these first two facts could be driven by other changes in the US

economy. Our subsequent facts evaluate the robustness of the results to alternative analyses.


4.3      Fact 3: Entry-level employment has declined in applications of AI that
         automate work, with muted changes for augmentation

AI exposure can either complement or substitute for labor. These may have very different impli-

cations for the labor market (Brynjolfsson, 2022).

       To assess how employment patterns differ based on the complementarity or substitutability of

AI with labor, we use data on generative AI usage from the Anthropic Economic Index (Handa

et al., 2025). The Index provides an estimate of the share of queries that pertain to each occupation.

In addition, for each task it reports estimates of the share of queries pertaining to that task that

are “automative,” “augmentative,” or none of the above. We use these classifications as estimates
  15
    Figure A3 shows that declining employment for young workers spans a range of occupations. Close to 70% of
occupations in the first exposure quintile see rising early career employment between October 2022 and September
2025, compared to less than half of occupations in the fifth quintile.


                                                      10
