        Why might AI adversely affect exposed entry-level workers more than other age groups? One

possibility is that AI disproportionately substitutes for workers using codified knowledge, includ-

ing both the “book-learning” that forms the core of formal education and the insights in digital

company data that can be codified by AI. AI may be less capable of replacing tacit knowledge,

the idiosyncratic tips and tricks that accumulate with experience but which are never digitized. 4

As young workers supply relatively more codified knowledge than tacit knowledge, they may face

greater task replacement from AI in exposed occupations, leading to greater employment realloca-

tion (Acemoglu and Autor, 2011). Older workers with accumulated tacit knowledge may face less

task replacement. These benefits of uncodified knowledge may accrue less to non-college workers

in occupations with low returns to experience. In other words, AI may be automating the cod-

ifiable, checkable tasks that historically justified entry-level headcount, while complementing the

judgment-, client-, and process-intensive tasks performed by experienced workers.

        Other explanations may contribute. AI may raise the leverage of experienced staff, increasing

their effective span of control (Ide, 2025). Reduced hiring may also be the lowest-friction adjustment

margin, compounded by inefficient incentives to train entry-level workers who may move firms

(Becker, 1994; Garicano, 2025; Garicano and Rayo, 2025). Consequently firms may primarily

shrink junior inflows rather than displace incumbents.

        This combination of task substitution at the apprentice margin, complementarity at the expert

margin, and quantity (not price) adjustment under wage ladders can explain why early-career

employment falls while employment of older workers continues to grow. An important direction for

research is to further model and test these predictions.



2        Related Literature

A growing body of research has sought to measure the employment effects of AI.5 This includes

influential papers that established methodologies for estimating which occupations and tasks were

susceptible to automation (Frey and Osborne, 2017; Brynjolfsson and Mitchell, 2017; Brynjolfsson

et al., 2018; Felten et al., 2018, 2019; Webb, 2019; Felten et al., 2021). More recently, work such
    4
     Ironically, one of the practical skills more likely to be learned on the job than in university computer science
classes may be how to use AI for software development.
   5
     There has also been extensive media discusssion of this topic including Thompson (2025); Raman (2025); Roose
(2025); The Economist (2025); Frick (2025). See Online Appendix B for further references and discussion.


                                                         5
