of whether the usage of AI in an occupation is primarily a substitute or complement for labor.

Table A1 shows example occupations that are in the highest and lowest exposure category for each

measure.

       Panel A of Figure 3 shows employment changes by overall prevalence of related Claude queries

for 22-25 year-olds.16 The patterns match the findings using the Eloundou et al. (2024) measures

closely. Panel B likewise shows that the occupations with the highest estimated automation shares

have experienced declining employment for the youngest workers.

       In contrast, Panel C indicates that the occupations with the highest estimated augmentation

shares have not experienced a similar pattern. Employment changes for young workers are not

ordered by augmentation exposure, as the fifth quintile has among the fastest employment growth.

The findings are consistent with automative uses of AI substituting for labor while augmentative

uses do not.17


4.4      Fact 4: Employment declines for young, AI-exposed workers remain after
         conditioning on firm-time shocks

While our results so far are consistent with the hypothesis that generative AI is causing a decline

in entry-level employment, there are plausible alternative explanations. One class of explanations

is that our patterns are explained by industry- or firm-level shocks correlated with sorting patterns

by age and measured AI exposure. For example, one possibility is that young workers with high

measured AI exposure are disproportionately likely to sort to firms heavily susceptible to interest

rate increases.

       We test for a class of such confounders by controlling for a rich set of fixed effects. For each

age group, we estimate the Poisson regression


                   log(E[yf,q,t ]) =                   γq′ ,j 1{t = j}1{q ′ = q} + αf,q + βf,t + ϵf,q,t       (4.1)
                                       X X

                                       q ′ ̸=1 j̸=−1

  16
    See Figures A6 through A8 for other age groups.
  17
    Occupations in the first two augmentation quintiles have very low Claude usage (0.01% and 0.09% of conversations
for the average occupation, respectively), with a high share of conversations classified as neither automative nor
augmentative. In contrast, occupations in the third through fifth quintiles average 0.47%, 0.39%, and 0.33% of
Claude conversations. For the automation measure, overall Claude usage increases on average with the automation
share, with the lowest exposure group averaging 0.05% of conversations and the highest group averaging 0.73%.
Figures A9 and A10 show that automation and augmentation results are similar when dropping occupations with
low overall Claude usage.


                                                               11
