                                                                                                              15

is determined as described in section 3.3.1 below. This incentive scheme uses a loss function
of the mean squared prediction error, averaging over patient cases and pathologies, and the
respondents earn a fixed bonus of $120 if a random draw is less than the loss function.
This bonus is more than 20% of the base payment to teleradiology firms. We explain to
the participants that expected payments are maximized if they provide their best estimates
using a non-mathematical description of the payment rule. We specify the distribution so
that 30% of pilot participants would earn the bonus, cross-randomized with the other two
treatment arms.


3.3     Implementation and Data Collection

3.3.1    Patient Cases and Ground Truth

The experiment uses 324 historical patient cases with potential thoracic pathologies from
Stanford University’s healthcare system. For each case, we have access to the chest X-ray
and the clinical history in the form of the primary provider’s written notes, the patient vitals,
and demographics.15 The use of retrospective cases allows us to avoid ethical and other issues
that would arise when experimenting in high-stakes settings.
Our analysis requires constructing ωi for each patient case. There are important challenges
in using an observational dataset of patient health records to construct this field. One ap-
proach would be to use the results from further medical tests. Unfortunately, definitive
gold-standard tests do not exist for most thoracic pathologies.16 Even when follow-up tests
are conducted, they are selected on the likely presence of a pathology, an issue referred to
as the selective labels problem (e.g. Mullainathan and Obermeyer, 2019). Medical outcomes
from patient health records also do not suffice because actions taken by the treating physi-
cian in response to the radiology report contaminate these measures. Recent literature has
suggested instrumental variables approaches for solving this selective labels problem, but this
work targets population quantities and not a “ground truth” on each case (e.g. Chan et al.,
2022; Mullainathan and Obermeyer, 2019).
We construct ωi by aggregating the assessment of a group of expert radiologists, an approach
common in computer science (Sheng et al., 2008; Mccluskey et al., 2021). Specifically, we
  15
     All cases are first encounters with no prior X-ray as a comparison. We started with 500 cases that fit these
primary criteria. We omitted pediatric cases from this set. Finally, a radiologist reviewed the cases to remove
instances with poor image quality. The clinical history was manually reviewed to remove patient-identifiable
information and cleared for public release.
  16
     Many pathologies do not have commonly used non-imaging-based diagnostic tools. For instance, the
presence of cardiomegaly – an enlarged heart – can only be determined using imaging tools, thoracic surgery,
or an autopsy.
