Combining Human Expertise with Artificial Intelligence:
       Experimental Evidence from Radiology∗

         Nikhil Agarwal, Alex Moehring, Pranav Rajpurkar, Tobias Salz†

                                           June 30, 2023
                                               Abstract

          While Artificial Intelligence (AI) algorithms have achieved performance levels com-
       parable to human experts on various predictive tasks, human experts can still access
       valuable contextual information not yet incorporated into AI predictions. Humans as-
       sisted by AI predictions could outperform both human-alone or AI-alone. We conduct
       an experiment with professional radiologists that varies the availability of AI assistance
       and contextual information to study the effectiveness of human-AI collaboration and
       to investigate how to optimize it. Our findings reveal that (i) providing AI predictions
       does not uniformly increase diagnostic quality, and (ii) providing contextual informa-
       tion does increase quality. Radiologists do not fully capitalize on the potential gains
       from AI assistance because of large deviations from the benchmark Bayesian model
       with correct belief updating. The observed errors in belief updating can be explained
       by radiologists’ partially underweighting the AI’s information relative to their own and
       not accounting for the correlation between their own information and AI predictions.
       In light of these biases, we design a collaborative system between radiologists and AI.
       Our results demonstrate that, unless the documented mistakes can be corrected, the
       optimal solution involves assigning cases either to humans or to AI, but rarely to a
       human assisted by AI.

JEL: C50, C90, D83, D47
Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, Belief Updating, Radiology
   ∗
     We are grateful to Stanford University Hospital for facilitating data access. The authors acknowledge
support from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation (2022-17182), JPAL Healthcare Delivery Initiative, and MIT
SHASS. The experiment was pre-registered on the AEA registry, number AEARCTR-0009620. The preanal-
ysis plans are available at SSR Registration 9620 and SSR registration 8799.
   †
     Agarwal: Department of Economics, MIT and NBER, email: agarwaln@mit.edu. Moehring: MIT Sloan
School of Management, email: moehring@mit.edu. Rajpurkar: Department of Biomedical Informatics, Har-
vard Medical School, email: pranav_rajpurkar@hms.harvard.edu. Salz: Department of Economics, MIT and
NBER, email: tsalz@mit.edu. The project benefitted from collaboration with several radiologists, including
Drs. Matthew Lungren, Curtis Langlotz, and Anuj Pareek of Stanford, Drs. Etan Dayan and Adam Jacobi
of Mt. Sinai Hospital, Steven Truong of VinBrain and several radiologists at VINMEC, and teleradiologists
at USARAD, Vesta Teleradiology, and Advanced Telemed. We thank Daron Acemoglu, David Autor, David
Chan, Glenn Ellison, Amy Finkelstein, Drew Fudenberg, Paul Joskow, Whitney Newey, Pietro Ortoleva,
Paul Oyer, Ariel Pakes, Alex Rees-Jones, Frank Schilbach, Chad Syverson, and Alex Wolitzky for helpful
conversations, comments and suggestions. Oishi Banerjee, Andrew Komo, Manasi Kutwal, Angelo Marino
and Jett Pettus provided invaluable research assistance.




                                                    1
