                                                                                                36

sA                                                                           E
 i only includes the focal pathology and is conditionally independent of sir given    ωi . The
                                                                                         
second allows for dependence between sA          E                                      E
                                         i and sir given ωi , but only through π ωi | sir for
the focal pathology and potentially clinical history. The third utilizes the correct update
                                                                                              
term constructed using all available AI predictions and the vector of probabilities π ωi | sE
                                                                                            ir
for all pathologies. Setting b = d = 1 and the constant to 0 in this last case corresponds to
Bayesian updating with correct beliefs.
The results from this exercise point to two types of errors in radiologists’ use of AI signals. The
first type of error is that radiologists neglect signal dependence even though AI predictions
and radiologists’ signals are highly correlated after conditioning on the ground truth (see
appendix table C.18). This conclusion follows because we select the model in column 1,
which uses an update term based on equation (6) and therefore does not control for sE .
Another implication of the selected model is that radiologists do not incorporate information
across different pathologies since only the focal pathology is relevant. This result validates
our previous analysis that analyzes each pathology separately.
Second, across different models, including all models that are not selected, we estimate that
radiologists exhibit automation neglect. However, radiologists do not exhibit substantial own-
information bias or neglect since the estimated value of d is close to 1 in all specifications.
Accounting for measurement error in estimating this model is important, as versions that do
not do so estimate d significantly less than 1 (appendix C.5.3) .
Connecting these observations back to our theoretical discussion in section 2, the parame-
ters are such that radiologists will not benefit unambiguously from access to the AI signal,
primarily because of signal dependence neglect.
