                                                                                                  104

C.5.2   Estimating Bayesian Update Terms

Here, we describe the method we use to estimate the Bayesian benchmark π(ωi = 1|sE                A
                                                                                            ir , si ).
This procedure is done separately for each pathology. We train a random forest classifier
that predicts the ground truth based on features including the vector of a radiologist’s re-
ported probabilities in the non-AI treatment and the vector of AI predictions. Additional
features include radiologist identifiers to allow for heterogeneity in radiologists’ assessments,
an indicator equal to one if the case was read with clinical history, and summaries of the
patient clinical history. We estimate this quantity for various parameterizations of sE  ir and si
                                                                                                    A

described in Section 5. These are used in the model testing exercise to understand if radiol-
ogists account for the joint distribution of signals when forming their posterior beliefs. The
hyperparameters of the model are tuned using grouped cross-validation where observations
were grouped by patient id to avoid overfitting with five folds. We impose monotonicity
constraints on the model to impose that π(ωi = 1|sE             A
                                                          ir , si ) is monotonically increasing in
all probability inputs. When the model includes clinical history, we provide a summarized
patient’s clinical record with their sex, weight, temperature, pulse, age, and the number of
available and flagged labs. We mean impute these variables when the radiologist does not
have access to the clinical history and include an indicator equal to one if the radiologist had
access to the clinical history as an additional feature. Below we summarize the performance
of these models and the relative value of increasing the dimension of sE            A
                                                                            ir and si .
