                                                                                                            10

ωi = 1 to ωi = 0 given that the human’s signal is sE       ir . The first term is positive if, given the
realization sE                   A
              ir , the signal si is more likely if ωi = 1 as compared to ωi = 0. In this case,
the posterior odds shift in favor of the state ωi = 1. Analogously, the odds shift away from
ωi = 1 if, given sE                  A
                    ir , the signal si is more likely if the state were ωi = 0.

The task of empirically analyzing deviations in participants’ beliefs from the benchmark in
equation (3) is challenging because the signals differ across cases i and humans may, due to
differences in skill, have heterogeneous signal distributions πr (·) . The ideal dataset would
                                               
elicit pr ωi = 1 sAi , sE
                        ir   and π r   ωi = 1 s E
                                                ir for the same case and the same human to keep
                        
the signals sA    E
             i , sir , and human-specific parameters fixed, and use the latter to estimate
                    
πr ω i = 1 s A    E
             i , sir using equation (3).

However, empirically implementing this strategy requires us to confront several experimental
and methodological challenges. First, the experiment needs to be sensitive to anchoring and
                                                                    
order effects when eliciting pr ωi = 1 sA
                                        i , sE
                                             ir   and π r   ωi = 1 s E
                                                                     ir from participants. Second,
the potential for measurement error and the dependence of the first term in equation (3) on
a latent signal sE
                 ir complicates the exercise. We defer our approach to this second challenge
to section 5, and turn our attention to the experimental design.


3       Setting and Experiment

Our experiment elicits the probability of a pathology’s presence pr (ω = 1 |s ) and a recom-
mended treatment/follow-up decision a under varying information treatments. There are four
information treatments in the experiment, with only the chest X-ray in the minimal informa-
tion case, to which we add AI assistance, contextual information, or both. Next, we describe
the experimental context and interface before presenting the design of our experiments.


3.1     Experimental Context

3.1.1    Radiology

Radiologists diagnose the presence of a given pathology at the request of a treating physician.
The information available to a radiologist consists of diagnostic images (e.g. chest X-rays),
any relevant medical history (e.g. laboratory results), and clinical indication notes of the
treating physician.8 The treating physician’s notes are of varying detail levels – they may
provide no clinical information or guidance, request the analysis of a specific pathology, or
    8
    Radiologists are rarely in direct contact with the patient or the treating physician, except via the formal
information exchange outlined here.
