                                                                                                               11

only list the patient’s primary symptom (see appendix B.2 for examples). Irrespective of
the pathology suspected by the treating physicians, radiologists are expected to report all
pathological findings.
Because image-based classification is a core task performed by radiologists, a high-paying
profession, it is not surprising that AI tools have made significant inroads in the field in the
last decade. Recent advances in deep learning methods for image recognition have yielded
algorithms that can match or surpass the performance of human radiologists (Obermeyer and
Emanuel, 2016; Langlotz, 2019). As of 2020, 55 companies offered a total of 119 algorithmic
products of which 46 have FDA approval (Tadavarthi et al., 2020). Most products related
to clinical decision-making are marketed as support tools as opposed to autonomous tools,
partly due to regulatory and liability issues (Harvey and Gowda, 2020).


3.1.2   CheXpert

We provide AI assistance using the CheXpert model, which is a deep learning prediction
algorithm for chest X-ray interpretation (Irvin et al., 2019). This model is trained on a
dataset of 224,316 chest radiographs of 65,240 patients labeled for the presence of fourteen
common chest radiographic pathologies.9 The algorithm does not use any other patient
information, such as the clinical history or vitals.10 Nonetheless, a prior version of this
algorithm was shown to match or surpass the performance of board-certified radiologists
from Stanford Hospital on five pathologies (Patel et al., 2019). These study results are also
presented to our participants when introducing the AI tool. Section 4 confirms that the
algorithm outperforms a majority of radiologists in our experiment. We relegate additional
details about the algorithm to appendix B.3. The algorithm assistance to our participants
will be in the form of a vector of probabilities for the presence of every pathology.11
   9
     The term artificial intelligence is typically reserved for a system of different prediction tasks to mimic a
more complex set of behaviors, whereas machine learning is concerned with one specific prediction task. For
a detailed discussion of this distinction see, for instance, (Taddy, 2018).
  10
     While large datasets of images are increasingly available (e.g. Kramer et al. 2011, Johnson et al. 2016,
Irvin et al. 2019) it is significantly more difficult to construct such datasets for other patient information due
to the compulsory manual review of textual data for HIPPA compliance.
  11
     Some algorithms attempt to make their predictions explainable to a human by highlighting the parts
of the image that drive a specific prediction. However, prior studies show that providing such localization
in addition to the numeric output does not improve the accuracy of radiologists (Gaube et al., 2022). A
quantitative output allows us to compute a Bayesian benchmark to the radiologist’s prediction, which is
otherwise difficult.
