                                                                                                                                                                                                    26

                                                             Figure 3: Conditional treatment effect given AI prediction
                                             (a) Deviation from Ground Truth                                                                    (b) Incorrect Decision
                                      .15
 ATE on deviation from ground truth




                                                                                                                                      .1




                                                                                                        ATE on incorrect decision
                                        .1

                                                                                                                                    .05
                                      .05


                                        0                                                                                             0


                                      -.05
                                                                                                                                    -.05
                                               [0,0.2)   [0.2,0.4)   [0.4,0.6)    [0.6,0.8)   [0.8,1]                                      [0,0.2)   [0.2,0.4)   [0.4,0.6)    [0.6,0.8)   [0.8,1]
                                                                 AI prediction bins                                                                          AI prediction bins


Note: Panel (a) shows the conditional average treatment effect of providing AI information on the absolute value of difference
between the radiologist probability and the ground truth. Panel (b) shows analogous treatment effects on incorrect diagnosis,
where a correct diagnosis is defined as the treatment recommendation matching the ground truth. Both these treatment effects
are conditional on the ranges of AI prediction. Standard errors are two-way clustered at the radiologist and patient-case level.
The error bars depict 95% confidence intervals. Robustness to experimental design is in appendix C.4.1 and C.4.2.




4.2.3                                        Treatment Effects on Time Per Case and Proxies of Effort

Finally, we turn our attention to the effects of AI assistance on time taken and the number
of unique interaction (clicks) as a proxy for effort. One hypothesis is that AI assistance could
economize on costly human effort without sacrificing overall performance by enabling quicker
assessments. At the polar opposite, it is possible that humans take more time because they
are provided with more information to process. Which of these effects dominate determines
the effect on labor costs when humans use AI assistance, and therefore the optimality of
delegating cases versus a collaborative setup.
Our results indicate that radiologists are slower when provided with AI assistance. The last
panel of table 2 shows the treatment effects on time spent per case and clicks. These outcomes
are measured at the case level. In the X-Ray Only treatment, radiologists spend about 2.6
minutes per case. Both AI and CH increase the time spend per case by a statistically
significant amount of approximately 4%. The interaction effct γAI×CH is not significant
for either of the two outcome variables. These effects suggest that decisions where both
radiologists and the AI are involved come at a non trivial increase in time spent per case.
This result further undercuts the potential benefits in performance from including humans
assisted with AI predictions “in the loop.”
