                                                                                                             7

skilled experts from teleradiology companies under contracts that allow us to incentivize
our participants. A key differentiating factor of our research is that, unlike previous studies
which mainly concentrated on performance, our work emphasizes behavioral biases and their
impact on human-AI interaction.
An emerging literature in economics also compares human and AI performance. Within
economics, these studies tend to rely on observational approaches, with examples addressing
issues in medicine (Ribers and Ullrich, 2022; Mullainathan and Obermeyer, 2019) and bail
decisions (Kleinberg et al., 2015; Angelova et al., 2022). However, analyses based on obser-
vational data face critical identification challenges, such as the selective labels problem (see
Kleinberg et al., 2017; Mullainathan and Obermeyer, 2019; Rambachan, 2021)). A limited
set of studies use quasi-experimental approaches (e.g., Stevenson and Doleac, 2019; Angelova
et al., 2022) or randomized controlled trials (e.g., Imai et al. (2020); Bundorf et al. (2020);
Noy and Zhang (2023); Grimon et al. (2022)) to investigate human use of AI tools, typically
focusing on overall performance or variability in participant response. We add to this litera-
ture by developing an experimental approach that manipulates the information environment
that calculates and compares behavior with a Bayesian benchmark to document systematic
biases and demonstrate that these biases lead to a non-trivial delegation problem.6
While several studies in behavioral economics have documented errors in probabilistic judg-
ment and belief formation, they do not focus on the issues surrounding human-AI interaction
(c.f. Tversky and Kahneman, 1974; Benjamin et al., 2019; Enke and Zimmermann, 2019; Con-
lon et al., 2022, for example). Our definitions of own-information and automation bias build
on the framework in Grether (1980). We contribute to this literature in two ways. First,
we develop an approach to estimate the parameters of the model in Grether (1992) in an
environment where the joint distribution of the signals cannot be controlled (or partialled
out) by the researcher.7 This approach is necessary because we cannot modify the signal
within medical images. Second, we link the design of AI information provision to the (bi-
ased) updating rule that humans use. This link shows that the use of AI information by
humans is an important and practical application of the ideas in this literature.
   6
     Our finding that radiologists exhibit automation neglect is related to those in Dietvorst et al. (2015),
which shows that humans are averse to following algorithmic recommendations as compared to human recom-
mendations. This aversion can be reduced if humans are allowed to modify the algorithm’s recommendation
(Dietvorst et al., 2018).
   7
     Most applications that we are aware of rely on one of two experimental approaches. In the first approach,
the researcher can partial out either the prior information or the likelihood ratio of the signal provided, for
example in the classic bookbag-and-poker-chip experiments (see Benjamin et al. 2019; Benjamin 2019, for
reviews). In the second approach, the researcher directly provides signals from a known joint distribution
(e.g. Conlon et al., 2022).
