                                                                                                            16

ask five board certified radiologists from Mount Sinai to read each of the 324 cases using
the interface described above with the available X-ray and clinical history. For each case
                                                                
i and expert radiologist r, we, therefore, obtain πr ωi = 1 sE
                                                             i,r   for each pathology, which
                                                                                                 
we aggregate to generate ωi . Specifically, we classify ωi = 1 if r πr ωi = 1 sE
                                                                            P
                                                                                  i,r /5 > 0.5.
This approach immediately addresses the selective labels problem because the availability of
assessments is not selected on the likelihood of a pathology being present. Results in Wallsten
and Diederich (2001) suggest that, under weak conditions that allow for measurement error in
the reports and correlations across reports, the aggregate opinion of several experts is highly
diagnostic as long as the experts are median unbiased. To assess robustness, we aggregate
                
πr ωi = 1 sE i,r   using both a log-odds average and a leave-one-out mean of the assessments
of all the radiologists in our experiment in the clinical history treatment condition.


3.3.2   Experimental Interface and Data Collected

We developed the interface to present the patient cases and to collect radiologists’ predictions
and decisions in collaboration with board certified radiologists at Stanford University Hospital
and Mt. Sinai Hospital. In contrast to free-text reports, we designed it to generate structured
and quantitative data on chest X-ray responses that resemble a typical radiological report.
A guiding principle in the design was to mimic clinical practice and to present and obtain
all clinically relevant information. We briefly describe this interface and provide images and
further details in appendix B.
On the landing page of each case, a high-resolution image of a patient’s X-ray is presented to
the radiologist, with the functionality to zoom and adjust brightness and contrast. When the
experiment calls to show the clinical history, the interface presents clinical notes, vitals, and
laboratory results available at the time the X-ray was originally ordered. If the experiment
provides AI assistance, participants are shown AI predictions for fourteen pathologies and a
composite prediction for whether or not there are any relevant findings.
The data entry interface collects a radiologist’s assessments of the probability that various
thoracic pathologies are present for a given case. The probability that a pathology is present
given the available information, i.e. pr (ω = 1 |s), is elicited using a continuous slider. We
visually subdivide possible responses into five intervals with standard language labels used
in written radiological reports to aid the participants.17 Our radiology collaborators grouped
pathologies into eight exclusive parent categories based on their type. Each group has children
  17
    The specific labels are “Not present”,“Very Likely”, “Unlikely”, “Possible”, “Likely”, and “Highly Likely”.
Several radiological publications have suggested such standardized language for radiological reports. See for
instance Panicek and Hricak (2016).
