                                                                                              23

The above analysis focuses on the effects on the marginal distributions of the outcome vari-
ables Yirt for each pathology. Thus, the specification abstracts away from interactions between
pathologies in the effects on information provision, for example due to potential dependence
between the predictions and decisions. In section 5, we will present evidence showing that
the best fitting model has radiologists updating their beliefs as-if they do not account for
dependence between pathologies.
The treatment effect analysis in the main text pools the three experimental designs and
does not condition on the sequence in which subjects encounter information treatments.
Appendix C.4.5 shows that our results are robust to including controls for order effects.
The estimates from all three designs are similar to each other. They are also statistically
indistinguishable from those that use only an across participant comparison from the first
treatment encountered in design 1 (appendix C.4.3).


4.2.1   Do Radiologists Utilize AI Predictions?

We begin by testing whether radiologists respond to the information that the AI pro-
vides. The left panel in table 2 shows how the different information environments affect
the disagreement of the radiologists’ report with the AI’s assessment, which is defined
                                           
as Yirt = pr (ωi = 1| sirt ) − π ωi = 1| sA
                                          i   . The term pr (ωi = 1| sirt ) is elicited whereas
            
π ωi = 1| sA
           i is the AI’s predicted probability that ωi = 1. When t indicates that AI as-
                                          
sistance is provided, then sirt = sE       A
                                     ir , si , and when t indicates that AI assistance is not
provided, then sirt = sE                  E
                       ir . The signal s also depends on whether contextual information is
provided.
The results show that radiologists utilize AI assistance: their predictions are closer to the
AI predictions when provided with assistance. To see this, observe that the control means
for the deviation from the AI are approximately 0.21 for both when we pool designs and for
design 1 only. Treatments where AI is provided reduce this baseline average deviation by
18% (all designs) and 16% (design 1). (p < 0.01).


4.2.2   Treatment Effects on Diagnostic Performance

We next ask whether the information treatments affect radiologists’ diagnostic performance.
As a measure, we consider the absolute deviation of the radiologist’s probability report from
the binary ground truth, Yirt = |pr (ωi = 1| sirt ) − ωi | where lower values implies better per-
formance. Appendix C.4.2 contains results that use a continuous ground truth, which are
