                                                                                              8

Our analysis of optimal human-AI collaboration is related to papers that build delegation
algorithms to predict the types of cases for which human performance exceeds machine
performance (e.g. Mozannar and Sontag, 2020; Raghu et al., 2019; Bansal et al., 2021).
Relative to this work, our analysis uses a decision-theoretic model and specific human biases
to trace their consequences for optimal AI deployment.
Finally, our work also adds to the literature on decision-making in the health care context
(e.g. Abaluck et al., 2016; Currie and MacLeod, 2017; Gruber et al., 2021; Chan et al.,
2022; Chandra and Staiger, 2020). This work aims to understand predictions and payoffs
from observational data on medical decisions, objectives that are achievable under less strin-
gent functional form restrictions in our experimental approach. An important distinguishing
feature is that none of these papers consider the effects of AI predictions on medical decision-
making.
Overview
The rest of the paper is organized in the following way. Section 2 introduces our model of a
decision-maker in a diagnostic setting. Section 3 describes the necessary details of the setting
and our experimental design. Section 4 discusses the treatment effects. Section 5 estimates a
descriptive model of deviations from Bayesian updating. Section 6 shows the gains achievable
under the optimal collaboration between radiologists and AI.


2   Conceptual Model

Our study focuses on classification problems and, specifically machine learning algorithms
within the domain of AI tools. These algorithms are designed to predict the appropriate
classification for a given case and may assist a human decision-maker. This decision-maker,
indexed by r, must take a binary action air ∈ {0, 1} on case i based on a prediction of a
binary state ωi ∈ {0, 1}. The realized payoff ur (air , ωi ) from an action depends both on
the state and the action. The expert does not know ωi but observes, depending on the
information environment, a subset of two signals that are potentially informative about the
state. The first signal is generated by a prediction algorithm (AI), with realizations sA     A
                                                                                         i ∈ S .
The second signal is directly obtained by the expert, with a realization sE            E
                                                                                ir ∈ S . These
signals are of arbitrary dimension. The joint distributions of the signals conditional on the
                                       
state is given by πr (·|ω) ∈ ∆ S A , S E , with prior probabilities over the state π (ω). We do
not place any restrictions on πr (·|ω). The signals need not be independent conditional on
the state of the world, and the signal distribution may depend on the expert, capturing skill
(Chan et al., 2022). We also allow for cases when one of the signals is more informative than
