                                                                                                    18

3.3.3     Participant Training

We train the participants using a combination of written instructions and a video. The
materials provide an overview of the experimental tasks, the interface, and information about
the AI assistance tool. The firms and the participants know that the research study involves
retrospective patient cases. To train participants on the AI tool, we provide them with
materials that explain the development of the algorithm, present metrics of its performance
on various diseases, and summarize the algorithm’s performance relative to radiologists based
on prior research. The participants are informed that the algorithm only uses the chest X-
ray to form predictions, and this knowledge is later tested in a comprehension question. In
addition, we show the participants fifty example cases that show the X-ray and clinical history
next to the AI output. After the instructions, they answer eight comprehension questions,
which the participants must answer correctly before proceeding to the experiment. We also
include an endline survey. We do not directly interact with the subjects except to field
questions about the experiment or provide tech support.21 The complete set of instructions
is provided in appendix B.2.


4        Estimated Treatment Effects

4.1      Overall Performance of AI and Radiologists

This section’s analysis focuses on measures of performance (deviation from ground truth,
incorrect decision), deviation from AI prediction, and measures of effort. Table 1 summarizes
the data on these measures and sample sizes from our experiment. The main text focuses
on top-level pathologies with AI with robustness to other pathology groups relegated to
appendix C.4.22
Radiologists make the correct follow-up/treatment recommendation on approximately 70%
of case-pathologies on average and spend ~2.8 minutes per case with large variability across
cases. All summary statistics are very similar across the three expertimental designs (tables
C.7 and C.9). For instance, the average deviation from the ground truth for the three designs
ranges from 0.191 to 0.232, and average active time ranges from 2.58 to 3.03 minutes.
    21
   We are blinded to the participants’ treatment status while the experiment is in progress.
    22
   These pathology groups and, unless otherwise noted, the subsequent analyses were pre-registered (see
SSR Registration 9620).
