                                                                                                       3

assistance unambiguously improves prediction and decision quality. Unless the costs in terms
of human effort outweigh these benefits, it is optimal to provide AI assistance to humans.
However, substantial literature in economics suggests that humans may err when making
probabilistic judgments by deviating from the benchmark model of Bayesian updating with
correct beliefs (see Benjamin et al., 2019, for a review). The optimal approach for combining
human and AI information in the presence of these mistakes is non-trivial.
The experiment employs professional radiologists whom we recruit through teleradiology
companies to diagnose retrospective patient cases. We experimentally manipulate the in-
formation set radiologists have access to when making decisions in a two-by-two factorial
design. In the minimal information environment, we provide only the chest X-ray image to
which we add either AI predictions or contextual information, or both. The AI information
treatment provides probabilities that a patient case is positive for a potential chest pathology
generated using an algorithm trained on over 250,000 X-rays with corresponding disease la-
bels (Irvin et al., 2019). This algorithm was shown to perform comparably to board-certified
radiologists. The contextual information treatment provides clinical history information that
radiologists typically have available but, for privacy reasons, was not available to train the
AI. This information includes the treating doctors’ indications, the patient’s vitals, and the
patient’s labs.
We first estimate the treatment effects of those informational interventions on radiologists’
prediction accuracy and the probability of making a correct decision. We then test alterna-
tive models of biased belief updating to investigate whether radiologists exhibit systematic
deviations from a Bayesian benchmark when incorporating AI predictions. For example, hu-
mans may suffer from automation bias, a tendency to place more weight on machine-provided
predictions than on one’s own information.3 Additionally, humans may treat AI predictions
as independent of their own information (Enke and Zimmermann, 2019). Finally, we evaluate
various forms of human-AI collaboration – in terms of diagnostic performance and costs of
expert time – that decide, as a function of the AI prediction, to use only the AI input, only
the human input, or the human input with access to AI.
Diagnostic radiology is an ideal laboratory for investigating human-AI interaction for var-
ious reasons. Deep learning has made significant advances in radiology, surpassing human
decision-making in many cases, and such algorithms are already clinically deployed Rajpurkar
and Lungren (2023). It, therefore, serves as a useful leading indicator for other professions
   3
   This terminology is borrowed from the literature that dates to the proliferation of computerized auto-
mated support systems in aviation, which raised concerns about human complacency or automation bias (see
Alberdi et al., 2009, for an overview).
