                                                                                               4

where similar developments will follow. Moreover, radiology is a highly-paid medical spe-
cialty, which means that the potential benefits from productivity enhancements through AI
are large. Radiology is also ideal from a research perspective. Unlike other physicians, radi-
ologists do not have direct contact with patients, allowing us to run a decision experiment
that resembles their normal workflow through a remote interface that we developed. To aid
quantitative analysis, instead of obtaining a free-text report, we collect radiologist’s assessed
probability that a given chest pathology is present and a binary clinical recommendation of
whether to treat or follow up for that pathology. For our experiment, we hired 180 radiolo-
gists through teleradiology companies that serve US hospitals and offer the services of both
US-based and non-US-based radiologists.
Analyzing the quality of our participants’ assessments requires establishing, for each patient
case, a standard or ground truth. An important challenge in our setting is that definitive
diagnostic tests do not exist for most thoracic pathologies and, even when they do exist,
are selectively performed depending on a radiologist’s recommendation. We therefore follow
the machine learning literature (Sheng et al., 2008) and construct a diagnostic standard by
aggregating the assessments of five board-certified radiologists at Mt. Sinai Hospital with at
least ten years of experience and chest radiology as a sub-specialty. We assess the robustness
of all our results by constructing a (leave-one-out) ground truth using the assessments of our
experimental participants and by varying the aggregation method.
There are two important challenges in designing the experiment, which we address using
a combination of experimental designs. First, while teleradiology firms allow us to recruit
radiologists for our experiment we need to compensate them at the market rate, making data
collection expensive. An across-participant design would therefore be cost-prohibitive except
for extremely large effect sizes. In the first design, we, therefore, randomize each participant
into an order in which they are exposed to the four informational environments but do not
encounter cases repeatedly. Thus, this design allows for within-participant comparisons in
addition to an initial pure across-participant comparison. The second challenge is that, to
estimate a model of belief updating, we need to observe radiologists’ assessments of a given
case both with and without AI assistance. Moreover, the assessment without AI assistance is
required to estimate the Bayesian benchmark, which we can compare to the assessment that
incorporates AI assistance. Our second design addresses this issue by asking each participant
to diagnose each patient case once in each of the four information environments in random
order while ensuring at least a two-week wash-out period between two encounters of a given
case. This wash-out period is intended to eliminate the memory of prior information and
