                                                                                                          14

and do rule out order effects on accuracy based on the first two designs.


3.2.4   Participant Recruitment

Participants for the first and third designs, which constitute the majority, were recruited
through teleradiology companies. The teleradiology companies allow us to recruit several
experts in a relatively liquid spot market, a practice that is now common for decision exper-
iments with non-expert subjects (Hunt and Scheetz, 2019). Most healthcare providers in the
US rely on these companies’ services, although many large hospitals have on-call radiologists
(Rosenkrantz et al., 2019). We work with teleradiology companies that serve US hospitals
and offer the services of both US-based and non-US-based radiologists. Our contracts with
teleradiology companies specify a piece-rate, and the companies, in turn, compensate the
participants with a piece-rate.13 In addition, we provided monetary incentives for accuracy
to a subset of radiologists, as described in the next section.
The second design required us to work with a partner who could guarantee subjects’ partici-
pation over several months. We collaborated with VinMac healthcare system in Vietnam to
recruit their staff radiologists to ensure continued participation. VinMac is in the process of
developing its own in-house AI capabilities and was willing to assist with our experiment in
exchange for recognition in a publication of the resulting dataset. The VinMac radiologists
did not receive receive any payments to participate in the experiment but we find that their
perfomance is very close to the performance of the tele-radiologists.
In total, 180 radiologists participated in our experiment. Close to 17% of our participants
are US-based, 38% have a degree from a US institution, 80% are affiliated with a large clinic,
and 61% with an academic institution. As demonstrated in appendix C.3, the quality of
the assessments made by the radiologists in our study is comparable to that of the staff
radiologists from Stanford University Hospital, who originally diagnosed the patient case.


3.2.5   Incentives

We cross-randomize incentives for accuracy in the first and third designs but not the second
because of the specific ways in which our partner’s radiologists are employed.14 Payments
were determined following the binarized scoring rule in Hossain and Okui (2013), where truth
  13
    We worked with three companies with piece-rates ranging from $7.50 to $13.00.
  14
    There does not appear to be a consensus in the experimental literature on whether incentives are superior
to non-incentivized responses when eliciting beliefs (see Danz, Vesterlund, and Wilson, 2020; Charness,
Gneezy, and Rasocha, 2021). A comparison between the incentivized and non-incentivized participants
allows us to answer this question in the context of this experiment.
