                                                                                              45

highly-skilled profession that is being transformed by AI, radiology also represents a large
class of professionals whose main job is a high-stakes classification task. Since we can simulate
radiologists’ normal workflow, this is an ideal setting for conducting such an experiment.
While the potential benefits of deploying AI assistance are large in our setting, biases in
humans’ use of AI assistance eliminate these potential gains. Even though the AI tool in our
experiment performs better than two thirds of radiologists, optimally combining their predic-
tions could substantially improve performance. Yet, we find that giving radiologists access
to AI predictions does not, on average, lead to higher performance. This average treatment
effect, however, masks systematic heterogeneity: providing AI does improve radiologists’ pre-
dictions and decisions for cases where the AI is certain, but not when uncertain. This latter
result – that prediction quality can be reduced for some range of AI signals – rejects Bayesian
updating with correct beliefs. We also describe systematic errors in belief updating – namely
radiologists exhibit automation neglect (e.g. radiologists weight the AI prediction relative
to their own) and treat the AI prediction and their own signals as independent even though
they are not. Moreover, radiologists take significantly more time to make a decision when
AI information is provided.
Together, these results have important implications for how to design the collaboration be-
tween humans and machines. Increased time costs and sub-optimal use of AI information
both work against having radiologists make decisions with AI assistance. In fact, an optimal
delegation policy that utilizes heterogeneity in treatment effects given the AI prediction sug-
gests that cases should either be decided by the AI alone or by the radiologist alone. Only a
small share of cases are optimally delegated to radiologists with access to AI. In other words,
we find that radiologists should work next to as opposed to with AI. To the extent that expert
decision makers generally under-respond to information other than their own (Conlon et al.,
2022) and incorporating additional information is cognitively costly, these insights may hold
in other settings where experts’ main job is a classification task.
There are several important considerations that are outside the scope of this work. One
question motivated by the unrealized potential gains of AI assistance we find is whether
the benefits from AI-specific training for radiologists and/or experience with AI are large.
Answering these questions requires different experimental designs or longer-run studies. An-
other open question is whether the heterogeneity in the value of AI assistance is correlated
with a human’s baseline skill or other characteristics, and whether such correlation can be
predicted to target assistance. A consideration in the organization of human-AI collaboration
that we abstract away from is that the form of collaboration may influence experts’ incen-
tives, to which humans may respond strategically. Finally, the use of AI in practice will be
