                                                                                                                            59

                                                           Figure B.3: Design 3

                                 Initial randomization into tracks

                                                                                 Same sets

                                             XO                        CH           AI       AI + CH
                                            Set 1                     Set 2        Set 1      Set 2


                                              CH                       XO        AI + CH       AI
                                             Set 1                    Set 2       Set 1       Set 2
                                                                     Same sets



Note: In this design, radiologists diagnose fifty cases, first without and then with AI assistance. Clinical history is randomly
provided in either the first or second half of images forming the basis of the randomization. The cases diagnosed with and
without clinical history are different.



B.2      Instructions

Below you will find the instructions received by the subjects when receiving the interface-
based treatment. Comments on the instructions are provided in italics and were not seen by
subjects.


Instructions

You are about to participate in a study on medical decision making. You may pause the
study at any time. To resume, revisit the link you were given and your progress will have
been saved.
We will present you with adult patients with potential thoracic pathologies. These patients
will be presented under the following four scenarios:

    1. Only a chest X-ray is shown.

    2. An X-ray is accompanied with additional information about the clinical history.

    3. An X-ray is shown along with Artificial Intelligence (AI) support. This AI tool is
       described in further detail below.

    4. An X-ray is shown along with both additional information on clinical history and the
       AI support.

The patients are randomly assigned to each of these scenarios. That is, availability of clinical
history and/or AI support is unrelated to the patient.
