                                                                                             39

Thus, consistent with the conclusions above, we find evidence for automation neglect, but no
meaningful own-information bias or neglect. These results suggest that the estimated model
represents a good approximation to the experimental data.
Taken together, the results indicate that while there are large potential gains from combining
radiologists’ assessments with AI predictions, biases in radiologists’ use of AI assistance
undercuts these gains. We find that radiologists exhibit both automation-neglect and signal
dependence neglect. These mistakes lead to no better diagnostic performance when provided
with AI assistance. One approach for addressing this issue is to provide radiologists with
better training, an avenue we leave for future research. A second approach is to design better
collaborative systems that are built on predicting the types of cases in which human experts
outperform AI predictions and vice-versa, and the types of cases in which AI-assisted humans
do best, an issue we turn to next.


6   Designing Human-AI Collaboration

We now consider the design of collaborative systems between AI and radiologists. The designs
we consider restrict attention to systems that use the AI signal to delegate a case to one of
three modalities – radiologists alone, the AI alone, or the radiologist with access to the AI.
As a warm-up for this exercise, it is useful to examine the predictive performance of the
different modalities, conditional on sA (see figure 7). Recall from the conditional treatment
effect analysis, radiologists’ assessments improve with AI in the lowest and the two highest
bins of AI signals. Figure 7 also shows that in two out of three ranges in which the AI improves
radiologists’ decision-making that its own performance is even better than the performance
of the radiologists with AI.
However, this figure misses the differences in the human time costs across modalities. Our
analysis of the estimated treatment effects shows that radiologists take more time when
provided with AI predictions. Moreover, using AI predictions alone saves on costly human
effort. This points to the conclusion that in most cases where AI improves decision-making,
one is at least as well off by relying exclusively on AI prediction. But using only AI or never
assisting humans with AI predictions may come at the cost of performance in cases when
using the human alone is superior.
Motivated by these observations, we now examine if there is a trade-off between the marginal
costs of human effort and diagnostic performance.
