                                                                                                        31
                                                       
the Bayesian’s decision a∗Bayesian = a∗ sA , sE ; πr with AI assistance. This follows because,
in the binary action setup, only one of the decisions can agree with the Bayesian decision. In
                                                                                           
all other cases, the human’s decision is weakly improved for the signal realization sA , sE .
In other words, a human whose decision changes upon receiving the AI signal sA is better
off with AI assistance only if the change agrees with the Bayesian decision. The human is
unambiguously better off if this property holds for all signals.
Our first result states that a human who deviates from the benchmark model because they
only exhibits automation neglect is unambiguously better off with AI assistance.

Proposition 1. Suppose that the human’s posterior is described by equation (5).
(i) If the human only exhibits automation neglect (b < 1, d = 1), then for all pairs of signal
                    
realizations sA , sE , and any crel , the human attains weakly higher expected payoff V (s) with
AI assistance.
                                                                                                π (sA |ω=1,sE )
(ii) In all other cases (b > 1 or d ̸= 1), for any crel , there exist log-likelihood ratios log π(sA |ω=0,sE )
         π (ω=1|sE )
and log π(ω=0|sE ) such that the human attains lower expected payoff V (s) with AI assistance.

See appendix A for the proof.
Figure 5a illustrates the case without own-information bias or neglect by setting d = 1 but
allows for either automation bias or neglect by setting b ̸= 1. The two dashed lines represent
cutoffs analogous to those in figure 4 for humans with automation bias and automation
neglect. Although a human that only exhibits automation neglect under-responds to the AI
information, their beliefs move towards a Bayesian decision-makers but does not overshoot
it. Whenever her decision changes, it agrees with the Bayesian’s. In contrast, if the human
exhibits automation bias, they errs for moderately informative AI signals with intermediate
              π (sA |ω=1,sE )
values of log π(sA |ω=0,sE ) because they over-reacts. At high enough values of this log-likelihood
ratio, both the Bayesian and the human exhibiting automation bias would take the same
action.
In the case when there is either own-information bias or neglect (d ̸= 1), it is always possible
for the payoff with AI to be lower than the payoff without AI assistance. In our model, this
occurs because providing the AI signal generates a bias in how the expert uses their own
information. Figure 5b illustrates the result (for d > 1 and b < 1). Relative to the analogous
line in figure 5a, the intercept of the dashed line is not equal to log crel . The vertically striped
triangle depicts combinations of the log-likelihood ratios above in which the biased expert
achieves a higher payoff without AI. In these cases, the expert takes the correct action without
AI assistance but incorrectly uses their own information with AI assistance, resulting in an
