use them daily. Despite this high baseline, Table 1 shows that encouragement raises these

rates by 35 and 11 percentage points, respectively (Columns 1-2), and is consistently

associated with higher reported time savings, improved quality, and enhanced creativity

(Columns 3-6).6 By contrast, training and enterprise tools alone do little to increase daily

use and are associated with smaller reported gains.7 For this reason, our subsequent

analysis uses encouragement as the primary workplace treatment.

       AI chatbots are reshaping the nature of work. Among chatbot users with employer

initiatives, about 12% report new tasks from chatbots (Table 1, Column 8). These tasks

include both productive activities (e.g., content drafting, ideation) and non-productive

ones (e.g., integration, compliance, oversight). Appendix B.3 classifies this new work

using workers’ free-text descriptions. New tasks extend even to non-users (Column 10),

signaling broader workplace transformations.

       Substantial variation in use and perceived effects persists even among similar workers

facing identical employer policies. While reported productivity gains are modest on average

(2.8% time savings for the typical user; Appendix D.3), some report saving more than

an hour per day, alongside improvements in quality, creativity, and new tasks. Section 3

exploits this variation to test whether labor market impacts differ for those reporting

larger effects.

1.4.1      Robustness of Employer Initiative Measures

Before using our measures of employer initiatives in the main analysis, we assess their

validity with a series of robustness checks.

       First, Appendix E.4 shows that all correlations with employer initiatives in Table 1

remain stable when controlling for firms’ characteristics and workers’ detailed task mixes

within occupations. This ensures that differences across initiatives are not driven by

firm age, size, or productivity, nor by variation in the types of tasks more amenable to
   6
     Appendix A.1 presents a Roy-style model of chatbot adoption to help interpret the estimates in
Table 1 on how employer initiatives affect adoption and user-reported benefits.
   7
     As Appendix D discusses, training and enterprise tools for non-encouraged workers are likely designed
to prevent misuse rather than to enhance productivity.


                                                    9
