                      Figure D.3: Employer Initiatives and Chatbot Adoption

                                       No Initiative

                                   Encourage Use

                                Enterprise Chatbot

                                           Training

              Encourage Use + Enterprise Chatbot

                         Encourage Use + Training

                      Enterprise Chatbot + Training

                                          All Three
                                                        0           .2             .4             .6          .8    1

                                                                               Daily Use          Ever Used

Notes: This figure illustrates how workers’ use of AI chatbots vary with their employer initiatives. The estimates are based
on predicted values from Equation (69), varying EmployerInitiatives while holding workers’ characteristics X at their mean
values. Whiskers represent 95% confidence bands of the predicted values. Some confidence intervals are too narrow to
be distinguished from the point estimates at this scale. Table E.2 reports the full set of regression estimates, including
specifications that use the share of workers with Monthly or More and Weekly or More usage as dependent variables.
Sample: All completed responses from the 2024 survey linked to registry data.




                 Figure D.4: Employer Initiatives and Gender Gaps in Adoption


                                        No Initiative


                                   Encouraged Use


                                 Enterprise Chatbot


                                            Training


               Encouraged Use + Enterprise Chatbot


                         Encouraged Use + Training


                       Enterprise Chatbot + Training


                                           All Three

                                                        -.15             -.1               -.05           0        .05


Notes: This figure illustrates how gender gaps in AI chatbot adoption varies with employer initiatives. The estimates are
obtained from a multivariate regression of AI chatbot adoption on worker characteristics X, controlling for occupation fixed
effects, and are estimated separately based on employers’ AI chatbot initiatives. Worker characteristics include gender,
age, experience, earnings, and net wealth; see Table E.3 for the full set of regression estimates. Whiskers represent 95%
confidence intervals. Sample: All completed responses from the 2024 survey linked to registry data.




                                                               49
