through several years of prior education. Thus, the absence of switching effects in these

occupations reinforces that the mobility effects we see elsewhere reflect a real link between

chatbot use and newcomers gaining occupation-relevant skills.


Discussion. A consistent finding from experimental studies is that AI chatbots provide

greater productivity benefits to workers with less prior expertise in their occupations

(Brynjolfsson, Li and Raymond, 2025; Dell’Acqua et al., 2023; Noy and Zhang, 2023).

This section presents large-scale evidence supporting a key implication of those studies:

chatbot adoption is associated with occupational switching. In this sense, our findings

align with the thesis of Autor (2024), who argues that Generative AI may help individuals

extend their work into new occupations.


3.3       Workplace Employment

Figure 3 examines how employer chatbot initiatives affect workplace outcomes. Panel (a)

first shows that workplaces that encourage chatbot usage have seen no differential change

in total employment after the arrival of AI chatbots.16 Our estimates are precise, ruling

out effects larger than 2%.

       Panel (b) focuses on the employment of early-career workers, which Brynjolfsson,

Chandar and Chen (2025) document have seen a sharp drop in aggregate employment

in the United States since 2022—a pattern Appendix G.2 replicates in the Danish labor

market. Importantly, however, the difference-in-differences estimates in Figure 3, Panel

(b) show that the decline in early-career jobs is not driven by firms adopting AI chatbots.

Our estimates are again precise, ruling out effects on early-career employment greater

than one-fifth of a full-time equivalent.

       Figure 3, Panel (c) examines impacts on job churn. Even with constant employment

levels, AI chatbots may require a different mix of skills, potentially increasing the rate

of job creation and destruction in the workplace. For instance, adopting and operating
  16
    Appendix E.2.3 shows that wage bills are similarly flat. Furthermore, while Figure 3 focuses
on employment within workers’ respective occupations, Appendix E.2.3 shows that overall workplace
employment remains flat as well.


                                               19
