   First, we assess the extent of spillovers across different segments of the labor market

by varying the level of aggregation in the difference-in-differences analysis. For instance,

the fact that encouraged workplaces do not experience differential outcomes in Section 3.3

suggests that spillovers between adopters and non-adopters within workplaces are limited.

Consistent with this interpretation, Figure E.12 shows that non-adopters in encouraged

workplaces have fared similarly to their counterparts in non-encouraged workplaces

following the introduction of AI chatbots. Extending this approach, Appendix G.1 shifts

the analysis to the occupation level, showing that our exposed study occupations have also

evolved similarly to the rest of the economy, maintaining a stable 20% share of aggregate

hours and earnings before and after the arrival of AI chatbots.

   Second, Appendix A.3.1 uses an equilibrium model to show that our difference-in-

differences estimates are informative about the magnitude of the “missing intercept.”

Under reasonable product demand elasticities, null effects at both the workplace and

worker levels imply that the occupation-wide equilibrium effect is also negligible. The

key intuition is that adopters generate spillovers to non-adopters only when their own

market outcomes change. Thus, the absence of adoption effects at both levels implies that

spillovers to non-adopters are likewise limited.

   Finally, as discussed in Section 4.1, workers’ perceived earnings impacts offer an

independent lens for evaluating general equilibrium spillovers. In particular, the fact that

virtually all non-adopters report no effect on their earnings further reinforces the finding

that occupation-wide impacts of AI chatbots are minimal.

   Taken together, these different analyses—difference-in-differences at varying levels of

aggregation, equilibrium calibration of existing estimates, and perceived impacts among

workers—all point to the conclusion that AI chatbots have not had any meaningful impact

on occupation-wide equilibrium outcomes thus far.




                                            99
