1.2    Register Data

We use several administrative registers at Statistics Denmark. Our matched employer-

employee data come from the Employment Statistics of Employees (BFL), which records

earnings, hours, occupation, and industry for all job spells in Denmark on a monthly

basis from 2008 onward. This register is compiled by the Danish tax authorities and

subsequently harmonized by Statistics Denmark. We complement this with demographics

data on individuals from the Population Register (BEF), and wealth information from

the Personal Wealth Register (FORMPERS). Finally, we draw firm financial data (e.g.,

annual revenue and employment) from the Firm Statistics (FIRM) Register. Because our

survey was sent to workers identified in the register data by their (deidentified) social

security numbers (pnr), all respondents can be matched to the register data. While labor

market data in the BFL register are updated continuously, we only have firm financial

data up to 2022. For that reason, we focus our effect analyses on labor market outcomes.


1.3    Survey Sample

We invited 115,000 workers to participate in each of our survey rounds in 2023 and

2024. The registers at Statistics Denmark enabled us to target these invitations by

occupation and workplace. In particular, for each of our 11 occupations, we conducted a

workplace-based sampling procedure, first drawing a random set of workplaces within each

occupation and then sampling all relevant workers at these workplaces. This sampling

procedure maximizes the statistical power of the workplace-level analyses while keeping

our sample representative. Appendix B.1 details the sampling protocol. We sent three

reminders per survey round, two by e-mail and one by text. The invitation letters are

in Appendix I. We received about 25,000 valid and complete responses to each survey.

Appendix B.2 details our survey response rates. While our main analysis focuses on

responses from the 2024 round, we use the 2023 round to examine early adopters.




                                           7
