where we have weaker priors about the direction or magnitude of effects.

       Finally, although the patterns in occupational mobility are clear and statistically

significant, the estimated effects are modest—amounting to roughly a 4% increase in

full-time equivalent employment—and not large enough to generate net gains in hours or

earnings for adopters (Section 3.1).


Heterogeneity by Strength of Treatment. Figure 4, Panel (b) examines how the

relationship between chatbot adoption and occupational mobility varies with the strength

of the adoption treatment. The figure shows that the association between chatbot adoption

and occupational switching is driven primarily by individual-level factors rather than

firm-level initiatives. For example, our main estimate on occupational switching rises from

1.4% to 3.0% for individuals who use the tools daily, and to 3.8% for those who report

large time savings.15 By contrast, the relationship between adoption and occupation

switching is fairly similar across employer chatbot initiatives, ranging in 2024 from about

1.6% for non-encouraged adopters to about 0.9% for those with both encouraged-use,

enterprise chatbots, and training.


Occupational Heterogeneity. Figure 5, Panel (c), splits the effects of chatbot adoption

on mobility by occupation. Positive effects appear in multiple occupations, but are

strongest and most statistically significant among IT supporters, and to some extent, office

clerks. These are jobs where individual workers likely have more flexibility in choosing

their toolset, allowing newcomers to take advantage of AI chatbots. In contrast, financial

advisors and customer support specialists often work with established IT systems, making

it harder for newcomers to compensate for missing skills by using chatbots on an individual

basis. These patterns align with Dillon et al. (2025), who show that workers primarily

adopt Microsoft Copilot for tasks where they can use the tools without coordinating with

others. Finally, some occupations, such as teachers and accountants, require licensing
  15
    The effect magnitudes in Figure 4, Panel (b), are generally smaller than the endline estimates in
Figure 2, Panel (c), reflecting that the pooled specifications in Figure 4 control for time trends (see
Equation (2)).


                                                  18
