new tools may require hiring new workers who displace incumbents (Bessen et al., 2023),

whereas assistance from the tools could instead help retain workers (Brynjolfsson, Li

and Raymond, 2025). Yet rates of job creation and destruction have remained stable for

workplaces that encourage chatbot use. Our confidence bands rule out effects on monthly

job churn rates greater than 0.5% of employment.

       Finally, even if overall rates of job churn are constant at the workplace, encouraging

AI chatbots may attract workers who would like to use the tools. Figure 3, Panel (d)

explores this possibility by estimating the “adopter propensity” of hires and separations

at the workplace—that is, the predicted adoption rate (based on workers’ pre-determined

characteristics) of workers who join or leave the workplace.17 However, despite the

model prediction that AI chatbots may lead to workers re-sorting across firms, we see

no differential changes in the adopter propensity of workers who join or leave workplaces

that encourage chatbot usage. The confidence bands rule out effects on the adopter

propensities of hires and separations larger than 1 percentage point.


Heterogeneity by Strength of Treatment. Figure 4, Panels (c) and (d) examine the

effects of additional initiatives in enterprise chatbots and training. Although Appendix D

shows that uptake and reported benefits are highest when the full suite of initiatives is

implemented, we find no detectable impacts on overall employment or early-career jobs

at these workplaces. Similarly, Appendix E.2.3 shows that job churn and worker sorting

have not changed differentially at workplaces with these investments.


Occupational Heterogeneity. Figure 5, Panels (c) and (d) report the estimated effects

of AI chatbots on workplace employment and early-career jobs across the 11 occupations

in our sample. We find no significant effects in any occupation: the estimates are close to

zero and generally rule out effects larger than 10%.18 Even between our most contrasting

groups—software developers and marketers (with flexible labor rules) versus teachers
  17
     Appendix H.1 details the estimation of these adopter propensities, which our economic framework in
Section A.2 microfounds as workers’ latent willingness to use AI chatbots.
  18
     Appendix E.2.3 similarly shows null results for job churn and worker sorting.


                                                  20
