copyediting); a positive task reinstatement effect, where new tasks for humans emerge

(e.g., oversight or integration of AI chatbots); and a positive productivity effect, where

productivity improvements from AI chatbots enable firms to scale up production, including

labor demand—depending on the elasticity of product demand. As they show, the adoption

of new technologies (e.g., encouraging chatbot use) increases labor demand only when the

combined productivity and reinstatement effects outweigh the displacement effect.

   Modeling chatbots is further complicated by the fact that adoption is not solely a

firm-level decision; it also depends on workers’ choices to use the tools. A key consideration

is whether chatbot use augments or displaces workers’ skills. Several experiments suggest

that chatbots benefit workers with less prior expertise, helping to close skill gaps within

professions (Brynjolfsson, Li and Raymond, 2025; Noy and Zhang, 2023). Following the

worker-level adoption model in Section A.1, workers will use chatbots if the productivity

benefits exceed the adoption costs. In particular, if the amenity value of chatbot use is

sufficiently high, workers may adopt even when doing so reduces their productivity.

   In sum, the implications of chatbot adoption for labor demand and productivity are

theoretically ambiguous at both the firm and worker levels. At the firm level, the outcome

depends on whether the productivity and reinstatement effects together outweigh the

displacement effect. At the worker level, the productivity impact depends on the amenity

value of chatbot use.


Firm and worker heterogeneity. Another key question is why some firms and workers

adopt chatbots while others do not. Following the frameworks of Mas (2025); Rosen

(1986), chatbots can be viewed as a “productive amenity”: firms will encourage chatbot

use if the profit gains exceed their costs, while workers will adopt if the productivity

benefits outweigh adoption costs (as in Section A.1). Applying the framework of Mas

(2025), chatbots may thus induce a resorting of workers who prefer to use them into firms

that encourage adoption, provided that encouragement enhances the utility of chatbot use

(as found in Section 1.4). In competitive labor markets, Rosen (1986) shows that the wage


                                              9
