    Finally, the null results across our 11 exposed occupations stand in contrast to some

evidence from online freelance platforms, showing sharp declines in demand for tasks

like writing and translation after ChatGPT’s release (Teutloff et al., 2025). Yet while

some freelance tasks are highly substitutable with chatbots, our survey shows that most

work—even in exposed occupations—is not, and that workers often reallocate saved time

to other tasks. A key advantage of our administrative data is that it captures workers’

total earnings and hours, regardless of such reallocations.


1     Data and Institutional Setting

Denmark offers an ideal setting for examining the labor market impacts of Generative AI.

    First, Danish workers have been at the forefront of Generative AI adoption, with

take-up rates comparable to those in the United States (Bick, Blandin and Deming, 2025;

Humlum and Vestergaard, 2025; RISJ, 2024).

    Second, Denmark’s labor market is highly flexible, with low hiring and firing costs—

similar to those of the U.S.—which allow firms and workers to adjust employment in

response to technological change (Botero et al., 2004; Dahl, Le Maire and Munch, 2013).

Appendix C.1 details wage-setting in our occupations, showing that most workers engage

in annual negotiations with their employers, providing regular opportunities to adjust

earnings and hours in response to AI chatbot adoption.

    Third, Denmark has exceptional infrastructure for tracking the adoption of new

technologies. In particular, every Dane has a digital mailbox that Statistics Denmark can

use to distribute survey invitations. We use this infrastructure to conduct two large-scale,

representative surveys on AI chatbot adoption.

    Finally, our partnership with Statistics Denmark allows us to link these surveys

to administrative matched employer-employee data, providing a unique opportunity to

analyze labor market effects such as changes in earnings, working hours, and job mobility.

    Taken together, these factors make Denmark a prime setting for observing early

labor market effects of Generative AI, with insights that may extend to other advanced

                                             5
