       productivity effect:


                    log YiE (Ai = 1) − log YiE (Ai = 0) = αb0 + αb1 × E + βb × i                 (31)


   3. The impact of employer encouragement on adopter earnings is theoretically ambigu-

       ous, as it depends on the relative magnitudes of the productivity and skill price

       effects:

                                                                         κ
                        log Yi1 (Ai = 1) − log Yi0 (Ai = 1) = αb1 −         ≷ 0.                 (32)
                                                                        ϵ−1

       Even if employer encouragement enhances the productivity benefits of chatbots

       (αb1 > 0, as documented in Section D.2.3), these gains need not translate into

       higher earnings for adopters. When encouragement is costly (high κ), product

       demand is less elastic (low ϵ), and productivity gains are modest (low αb1 ), employer

       encouragement may reduce adopter earnings. Adopters may still prefer to sort

       into encouraged firms if encouragement sufficiently reduces adoption costs (i.e., if
                    κ
       αc1 < αb1 − ϵ−1 ). However, these benefits will not be reflected in their earnings.


Occupational mobility. If chatbots create greater benefits Bij for newcomers to

an occupation, we will observe a dynamic correlation between chatbot adoption and

occupational switching (as documented in Section 3.2).22


Worker-firm sorting. Following Equation (26), AI chatbots should trigger a realloca-

tion of workers who would like to adopt chatbots (low-i types) into firms that encourage

use (E = 1).


Worker outcomes. Figure A.3 summarizes how AI chatbots affect workers’ sorting,

adoption, and earnings. The gray line highlights the equilibrium sorting and adoption
  22
    This model prediction reflects an effect running from occupational choice to chatbot adoption. The
causality may also run the other way, however, with chatbots prompting workers to move into new
occupations. The theoretical framework abstracts from this occupational-choice margin to keep the
analysis tractable.



                                                 17
