A.2        Labor Market Outcomes

This section provides a theoretical analysis of how AI chatbots affect labor markets,

followed by a discussion of how these effects can be identified empirically.

       Modeling the labor market impacts of AI chatbots raises several key questions: How

do chatbots enter the production process? What explains why some firms and workers

adopt them while others do not? Are labor markets competitive, or do firms exercise

monopsony power? How do firms compete in product markets? Before committing to a

formal framework, Section A.2.1 considers the theoretical implications of each of these

issues.

       Section A.2.2 then introduces a fully-fleshed model of chatbot adoption and labor

market outcomes. We embed the Roy adoption model from Section A.1 into a simple

equilibrium framework in which heterogeneous firms adopt chatbot initiatives and hire

workers to maximize profits, while workers sort across firms and adopt chatbots to

maximize utility. Section A.2.4 uses the model to derive predictions for how AI chatbots

affect labor market outcomes. Finally, Section A.2.5 applies the model to interpret our

difference-in-differences estimates from Section 3.

       For clarity of exposition, we focus on encouraged use as the employer initiative,

reflecting its central role in the empirical analyses in Section 3.

A.2.1       Modeling Choices

Chatbot technology. A first key question is how chatbots enter the production process:

Are they “co-pilots,” contributing to output only when prompted by humans, or closer to

“co-workers,” operating autonomously without human involvement?21 More broadly, do AI

chatbots complement or substitute for labor?

       Acemoglu and Restrepo (2018b, 2019) provide a theoretical framework for how new

technologies affect labor productivity through three channels: a negative task displacement

effect, where chatbots automate tasks previously performed by humans (e.g., automated
  21
    Ide and Talamas (2025) embed AI in a model of the knowledge economy, showing that whether AI
functions as a co-pilot or co-worker has crucial implications for its impact on labor demand and inequality.


                                                     8
