to labor market outcomes.

   To examine these outcomes, we link our surveys to administrative records on monthly

earnings, hours worked, and occupations through December 2024—two years after the

launch of ChatGPT. Using a difference-in-differences framework, we compare adopters

and non-adopters before and after the arrival of AI chatbots, estimating impacts at both

the worker and workplace levels.

   We begin by analyzing workers who use AI chatbots. If these tools enhance individual

productivity, a natural question is whether such gains translate into higher earnings. Our

first key finding is that AI chatbots have had minimal overall impact on workers who use

them. Difference-in-differences estimates for earnings, recorded hours, and wages are all

precisely estimated zeros, with confidence intervals ruling out average effects larger than

2%. These null results hold even for workers who use the tools daily, report substantial

productivity gains, perform new AI-related tasks, and work in firms that encourage and

invest in chatbots. Moreover, we find no significant effects in any of our 11 occupations,

including those with flexible, decentralized wage-setting.

   While chatbots have not led to earnings gains for users, we find a clear link to

occupational mobility: adopters are more likely to have transitioned into new occupations

after the arrival of AI chatbots. This aligns with experimental evidence that chatbots are

especially beneficial for workers with less prior expertise (Brynjolfsson, Li and Raymond,

2025; Noy and Zhang, 2023), and supports the view that Generative AI helps workers

extend into new occupations (Autor, 2024). However, the effects are modest—amounting

to 4% of full-time equivalent employment—and do not result in net gains in hours or

earnings.

   Next, we zoom out to the workplace level and examine whether employers that

encourage and invest in AI chatbots have experienced differential changes in labor demand.

If chatbots substitute for labor, they could lead to slower hiring or trigger layoffs; if

they enhance productivity, firms might expand hiring. Yet we find no such differences:

workplaces that encourage chatbot use show no differential changes in employment or


                                            2
