effects of an amenity depend on the tradeoffs at the margin—i.e., the costs and benefits

faced by firms and workers who are just indifferent to providing or accepting the amenity.

Applied to our context, this implies that the wage effects of chatbot encouragement hinge

on the marginal firm and worker.


Labor market competition. Who ultimately benefits from the productivity gains of

AI chatbots depends crucially on the nature of labor market competition. In competitive

labor markets, workers are compensated only for productivity gains not driven by firm-

level investments (Acemoglu and Pischke, 1998; Becker, 1964). In this case, worker-level

adoption should affect worker wages (Figure 2), whereas firm-level adoption should not.

Instead, firm-level adoption should manifest in total employment (Figure 3), as firms

move down their product demand curves.

   An important alternative is the monopsony model of Card et al. (2018), in which firms

exert monopsony power because workers have heterogeneous preferences over employers,

but firms cannot price discriminate across workers. In this framework, adopters do not

experience within-firm wage differentials; instead, any earnings effects from chatbots arise

at the firm level through labor demand adjustments. Thus, while within-firm earnings gaps

between adopters and non-adopters (Figure 2) should not emerge in this setup, firm-level

outcomes such as total wage bills, employment, and average wages should still be affected

(Figure 3). Whether firm-level employment effects translate into wages depends on the

elasticity of workers’ labor supply across employers—that is, how heterogeneous their firm

preferences are. Finally, even in a monopsony setting, adopters should reallocate toward

encouraged firms, as shown in Figure 3.

A.2.2    Formal Setup

This section introduces a formal model of chatbot adoption and labor market outcomes,

built on a set of simplifying assumptions for analytical tractability. First, we treat AI

chatbots as tools that affect output only when actively deployed by workers. This reflects

the current state of chatbot technology—dependent on direct human prompting—while

                                            10
