    The emergence of AI chatbots marks the rise of Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI).

By some measures, these technologies are already living up to the immense hype: AI

chatbots have seen the fastest worker take-up of any new technology (Bick, Blandin and

Deming, 2025; Humlum and Vestergaard, 2025), randomized controlled trials (RCTs)

demonstrate substantial productivity gains for users (Brynjolfsson, Li and Raymond, 2025;

Noy and Zhang, 2023), and case studies indicate notable effects on online labor market

platforms (Teutloff et al., 2025).1

    Yet even as Generative AI tools have become widespread, substantial disagreement

remains about their labor market effects, with forecasts ranging from dramatic disruption

within a few years (Axios, 2025) to negligible impacts over a decade (Acemoglu, 2025).2

    This paper provides large-scale, representative evidence on the early labor market

impacts of AI chatbots. In collaboration with Statistics Denmark, we conducted a series of

extensive surveys of the adoption of AI chatbots in 11 highly exposed occupations, linking

responses to administrative labor market records.3 Our latest survey round, conducted in

late 2024, includes responses from 25,000 workers across 7,000 workplaces. Leveraging

this unique data link, we provide the first comprehensive evidence on how AI chatbot

adoption has affected labor market outcomes at both the worker and workplace levels.

    To set the stage, we first describe the landscape of AI chatbot adoption. While

chatbots are widespread, many otherwise similar workplaces and workers have taken

markedly different paths: some employers still do not encourage use; others promote it

with guidelines, enterprise tools, and training. Likewise, even among otherwise similar

workers under identical policies, usage varies from none to daily. This rich variation—across

both workplaces and workers—offers an opportunity to study how chatbot adoption relates
    1
      These effects on productivity and platform demand are remarkable in both magnitude—ranging from
15% to 50%—and speed, materializing within a few months.
    2
      Anthropic CEO Dario Amodei recently predicted that AI could eliminate half of all entry-level
white-collar jobs, driving unemployment to 10-20% within the next one to five years (Axios, 2025). In
contrast, Acemoglu (2025) predicts that AI will increase annual TFP growth by less than 0.07 percentage
points over the next ten years.
    3
      Our list of occupations is accountants, customer support specialists, financial advisors, HR profession-
als, IT support specialists, journalists, legal professionals, marketing professionals, office clerks, software
developers, and teachers.



                                                      1
