economies—including the U.S.—and an unparalleled data infrastructure to assess these

impacts rigorously.


1.1     Survey Data

This paper builds on two large-scale surveys on AI chatbot adoption, conducted in

November–December of 2023 and 2024. The first survey provided the dataset for Humlum

and Vestergaard (2025), which documented adoption patterns of ChatGPT, the dominant

AI chatbot. This paper extends that dataset in two key ways. First, we link survey

responses to administrative labor market data after the introduction of ChatGPT, enabling

us to assess impacts on earnings, hours worked, and job mobility. Second, we introduce

a second survey round in 2024 that (i) broadens the scope to include all AI chatbots,

including custom versions, (ii) provides extensive data on employer-led adoption initiatives,

and (iii) offers deeper insights into workers’ actual usage and perceived benefits of these

tools. Appendix J outlines the 2024 survey, which is the primary focus of this paper.

1.1.1   Occupations

Our surveys focus on 11 occupations that are highly exposed to AI chatbots: accountants,

customer support specialists, financial advisors, HR professionals, IT support specialists,

journalists, legal professionals, marketing professionals, office clerks, software developers,

and teachers. These occupations were selected based on three criteria: (i) they have

at least one O*NET job task where AI chatbots can save time, as measured by the

“Direct Exposure (E1)” metric from Eloundou et al. (2024); (ii) they are captured by a

well-defined set of ISCO codes; and (iii) they contain a sufficient number of workers for

statistical analysis. Humlum and Vestergaard (2025) details the selection and empirical

measurement of these occupations. Together, these 11 occupations comprise the segments

of the labor market where the impacts of AI chatbots are likely to emerge first and most

strongly. Our analysis focuses on this set.




                                              6
