where I(j) denotes the set of workers employed at firm j.

   The production function in Equation (13) models AI chatbots as tools that affect output

only when actively deployed by workers. While we view this as a realistic representation

of current chatbot technology—which depends on direct human prompting—Section

A.2.1 examines the implications of a more general technology where chatbots may affect

production beyond individual use.

   Product markets are characterized by monopolistic competition, where atomistic and

horizontally differentiated firms hire labor and produce output to maximize profits. Firms

face the product demand curves:


                                         Yj = Pj−ϵ ,                                    (14)


where ϵ is the elasticity of demand across firms within the sector.


Labor demand. Labor markets are perfectly competitive, so workers are paid according

to the marginal revenue product of labor:

                                     ∂Pj Yj              −1
                              Wj =          = (1 − 1/ϵ)Yj ϵ .                           (15)
                                      ∂Hj

Since firms’ production and demand curves are symmetric, and workers derive the same

net benefit α̂1 from employer encouragement across employers, two skill prices Wj exist in

equilibrium: one at encouraged employers W1 and one at non-encouraged employers W0 .

Let j ∈ {0, 1} indicate whether a firm encourages chatbot use.

   Equilibrium skill prices adjust to equate the supply and demand for human capital

across encouraged and non-encouraged employers. These supply and demand forces reflect

workers’ sorting and adoption decisions, as well as firms’ encouragement and hiring policies.

We characterize equilibrium skill prices in Section A.2.3.


Employer encouragement. Employers derive log utility from flow profits and encour-

age AI chatbots if the utility from the resulting profit gain exceeds their encouragement


                                             12
