ensuring that differences across employer initiatives are not driven by variation in firm

age, size, or productivity. Second, we show that the results are robust to controlling

for workers’ detailed task mixes within occupations, demonstrating that the effects of

employer initiatives are not driven by differences in the types of tasks more amenable to

AI chatbot use.30 Finally, in our panel analyses in Section 3, we verify that adopters of

different chatbot initiatives followed similar labor market trajectories prior to the arrival

of AI chatbots. Together, these robustness checks help rule out confounding factors and

support the validity of our estimated relationships.

       Finally, since our data are collected from workers rather than senior leadership, our

estimates reflect employer initiatives as perceived by workers. Since employer policies may

not be perfectly communicated, worker self-reports may not fully align with employer

intentions. Nonetheless, Appendix E.5 shows that our findings are largely robust to using

coworker reports to measure employer initiatives, demonstrating these may be interpreted

as workplace-wide treatments.

D.2.2       Adoption

Figure D.3 shows how AI chatbot adoption varies with employer initiatives for a typical

worker. The top estimate (No Initiative) highlights the bottom-up nature of adoption:

even among workers whose employers neither encourage chatbot use, provide an enterprise

chatbot, nor offer training, about 41% have used AI chatbots at work at some point, and

7% use them daily.

       Despite this high baseline, employer initiatives are associated with substantially higher

adoption. Implemented individually, Encouraged use, Own chatbot, and Training each

raise extensive-margin take-up rates to 76%, 57%, and 69%, respectively. Encouraged-use

policies are especially effective at increasing intensive usage, raising daily use from 7%

to 18%. In contrast, providing training or an enterprise chatbot without encouragement
  30
    We do not include task controls in our main specification, as task mix may itself be endogenous to
chatbot adoption. Indeed, Section E.1.6 shows that AI chatbots have created new job tasks for many
workers.



                                                 47
