1.3.1      Representativeness and Response Quality

Appendix B.2.1 conducts several checks on the representativeness and quality of our

survey responses. These analyses extend the checks in Humlum and Vestergaard (2025) to

the 2024 survey round. First, we ensure that our sample represents the population based

on observables, including age, gender, experience, earnings, and wealth. Second, following

Dutz et al. (2025), we use randomized participation incentives to show that our findings

are also balanced on workers’ latent willingness to participate in the survey. Finally, we

cross-check that the survey responses align with variables that are also recorded in the

administrative registers.


1.4       The Landscape of AI Chatbot Adoption

By the end of 2024, employers and employees have taken clear positions on AI chatbots:

adoption is widespread across all 11 exposed occupations, but strategies vary markedly

within each. Appendix D provides detailed evidence on adoption and workers’ reported

experiences, and Appendix A.1 develops a Roy-style adoption model to interpret these

patterns. Here, we highlight the key points that set the stage for our analysis of labor

market effects.

      Most employers now encourage chatbot use. As Figure 1 shows, 43% of workers are

explicitly encouraged to use them, another 21% are allowed, and only 6% are prohibited.

Employers also make tangible investments in chatbots: among encouraged workers, 39%

have received training, 61% have access to an enterprise chatbot, and 29% have both.5

      Many otherwise similar firms have adopted markedly different strategies. Observable

firm characteristics (age, size, productivity, and ownership) explain only 1.3% of the within-

occupation variation in encouragement—well below the 10.6% explained by occupation

alone (Appendix D.1).

      Encouragement is associated with substantially higher adoption and reported benefits.

Even without employer initiatives, 40% of workers have used chatbots at work and 6%
  5
      Among non-encouraged workers, 21% have access, 11% have training, and 4% have both.


                                                 8
