where we add adopter-specific time trends to ensure our pooled difference-in-differences

estimates are not driven by spurious trends in outcomes. The parameters of interest, βy ,

measure how labor market outcomes for adopters changed in year y after the introduction

of AI chatbots, compared to the period before their arrival. We estimate Equation (2) by

OLS and cluster the standard errors by workplace-occupation level.


3        Results
3.1       Worker Earnings

Figure 2, Panels (a) and (b) examine earnings of chatbot adopters, distinguishing between

those with and without employer encouragement. Each group is compared to non-

encouraged non-adopters—workers who are most insulated from AI chatbots, either

through their own non-use or that of their coworkers.

       Panel (a) begins by presenting differences in means, controlling for workers’ pre-

determined characteristics—occupation, gender, age, and experience. Adopters appear to

earn substantial premia of about 9% for those with employer-encouraged usage and 4%

for those without. However, leveraging the panel dimension of our administrative data

reveals that these earnings differentials entirely predate the arrival of AI chatbots. When

indexing differences to November 2022, the difference-in-differences estimates in Panel (b)

show no differential changes for adopters following the introduction of AI chatbots. The

estimates remain flat even among adopters whose employers explicitly encourage chatbot

use. Appendix E.2.1 shows that these null results hold separately for workers’ hourly

wages, intensive-margin hours, and extensive-margin employment.10

       Figure 2, Panel (b) provides three key insights. First, two years after their launch, AI

chatbots have had minimal earnings impact on workers who use them. The confidence

intervals of our dynamic difference-in-differences estimates rule out changes larger than
  10
   The results for adopter earnings echo the pattern documented by Krueger (1993) and critiqued by
DiNardo and Pischke (1997): although chatbot use is correlated with sizable cross-sectional earnings
premia, these differentials vanish once accounting for positive selection.




                                                14
