C      Institutional Setting
C.1     Wage Setting Systems in Denmark

The Danish labor market is characterized by both high flexibility and strong collective

institutions. Union density is relatively high at 65%, and the coverage rate of collective

bargaining agreements (CBAs) is even higher at 81% (Jäger, Naidu and Schoefer, 2024;

Munch and Olney, 2024). While unions negotiate CBAs, coverage is not dependent on

union membership. A worker may be a union member without being covered by a CBA,

and conversely, a non-union member may still be covered. Whether a worker is covered

depends on whether their employer is a member of an employer organization.

    Beginning in the 1980s and continuing through the 1990s, the Danish wage-setting

system underwent significant decentralization (Dahl, Le Maire and Munch, 2013). Today,

many workers negotiate at least part of their wages individually, even when they are

formally covered by a CBA. When a CBA is negotiated, the resulting wage-setting

structure typically falls into one of the following three categories:

    • Sector-Level Bargaining (Centralized): Wages are negotiated centrally, with

      wages largely determined by the combination of industry and occupation. These

      agreements may include provisions for returns to tenure or education.

    • Two-Tiered Bargaining: The union and employer organization negotiate either

      a minimum hourly wage or a minimum income level for each industry-occupation

      category. Actual wages are then negotiated at the firm level, potentially with union

      support.

    • Firm-Level Bargaining (Decentralized): No specific wages are set at the

      collective level. Instead, all wage negotiations occur directly between the firm and

      its employees. The precise form of firm-level bargaining can vary.

    Table C.1 provides an overview of the wage-setting systems in our 11 study occupations.

Decentralized (two-tiered or firm-level) bargaining systems are the most prevalent in our

                                             40
