chatbot use. In addition, the panel analyses in Section 3 confirm that adopters of different

initiatives followed similar labor market trajectories prior to the arrival of AI chatbots.

    Second, because our data come from workers rather than senior leadership, our

estimates reflect initiatives as perceived by workers. Policies may not be perfectly commu-

nicated, and self-reports may diverge from employer intentions. Nonetheless, Appendix E.5

shows that our results are robust when employer initiatives are measured using coworker

reports, indicating that these measures capture workplace-wide initiatives.


2     Empirical Strategy

Evaluating the labor market impacts of AI chatbots raises several conceptual questions:

What are the relevant treatments to consider? If the treatments have an effect, in which

labor market outcomes would they manifest? And how can we identify these impacts in

the data?

    Motivated by the dual nature of adoption—with variation across workplaces depending

on their chatbot initiatives and within workplaces depending on individual use—we analyze

impacts at both the worker and workplace levels. Appendix A.2 presents a theoretical

framework for how adoption translates into labor market outcomes, guiding the following

analyses:

    1. Worker earnings: If AI chatbots raise individual productivity, these gains may

      translate into higher wages for users (Krueger, 1993). Notably, the wage effects

      depend on whether adoption is worker- or firm-driven, the productivity and amenity

      value of chatbot use, and the relative scarcity of adopting workers versus firms.

      Section 3.1 investigates these predictions by estimating the impacts of chatbot

      adoption on earnings by workers’ intensity of use, employer initiatives, reported

      productivity gains, and new AI tasks.

    2. Workplace employment: If chatbots reduce the need for labor, adopting workplaces

      might slow hiring or lay off workers. Conversely, if the tools boost productivity and


                                            10
