and presenting additional visualizations.

       In Section D.1, we first document employers’ chatbot initiatives, showing that otherwise

similar firms often pursue markedly different approaches. In Section D.2, we then examine

how these strategies relate to worker adoption, user-reported benefits, and the emergence

of new tasks. Finally, in Section D.3, we quantify the total self-reported time savings

across occupations and employer initiatives.


D.1        Employer Initiatives

Figure D.1, Panel (a) shows the prevalence of employer policies related to AI chatbot

usage across our 11 occupations. Firms are now heavily invested in AI chatbots: about

43% of workers are explicitly encouraged to use them, another 21% are allowed, while

only about 6% are explicitly prohibited from doing so. This marks a shift from early

responses to ChatGPT, when many employers restricted its use due to concerns over data

confidentiality and output accuracy (Humlum and Vestergaard, 2025).25

       Employers not only set usage policies but also invest directly in chatbot adoption. Panel

(b) shows that 38% of firms have an enterprise AI chatbot solution—most often customized

versions—and Panel (c) shows that 30% of employees have participated in training courses

on AI chatbot usage, most often organized by their employer.26 Notably, these firm-

led investments are prevalent in all 11 occupations but are particularly widespread in

journalism and marketing and more limited in teaching. The widespread investments

in AI chatbots at the workplace are consistent with their potential as a general-purpose

technology (Eloundou et al., 2024).

       Which firms have adopted different AI chatbot initiatives? Table D.1 shows that firms

encouraging AI chatbot use tend to be slightly younger (each additional 10 years of age
  25
      Although outright bans are now rare, they persist in some occupations that involve sensitive data
(e.g., financial advisors) or require high factual accuracy (e.g., legal professionals).
   26
      Customized chatbots are typically versions of ChatGPT, tailored for workplace use through adjust-
ments such as compliance with data security, access to internal data, and custom prompt creation. Often,
these are thin wrappers around ChatGPT Enterprise or the OpenAI API. Appendix E.1.3 details the
usage of AI chatbot products, showing that ChatGPT remains the dominant player. It also provides
additional information on the characteristics of enterprise chatbots.



                                                  42
