Labor Market Effects. Figure E.22 revisits the impact of employer encouragement

on workplace employment outcomes (Figure 3), now using our leave-out Bayes shrinkage

measure for employer encouragement. The figure shows that all our difference-in-differences

estimates are robust to using coworker reports to measure employer encouragement.

Figure E.22: Have Adopting Workplaces Fared Differently? (Coworker Encouraged DiD)


                         log(Employment)


          Empl. of Early Career Workers


                              Job Creation


                          Job Destruction


         Adoption Prop. of Job Creation


      Adoption Prop. of Job Destruction

                                             -.15         -.1        -.05          0          .05        .1         .15

                                                                            2023       2024


Notes: This figure shows workplace employment outcomes for encouraged-use workplaces relative to those without
encouragement, indexed to November 2022. It replicates our “Encouraged” estimates from Figure 3, now using coworker
reports to measure employer encouragement (see Section E.5.1). Panel (a) reports log employment; Panel (b), early-career
employment in full-time equivalents (divided by 100 for scale comparability); Panel (c), job creation and destruction rates
(hires and separations as shares of total employment); and Panel (d), the adopter propensity of hires and separations.
Estimates are based on the pooled specification in Equation (2), with 95% confidence intervals shown as whiskers. Sample:
All completed responses from the 2024 survey linked to registry data.




F       Spillovers to Non-Adopters

Our main difference-in-differences estimates identify the effects of AI chatbots only up

to occupation-wide effects—the so-called “missing intercept” problem. For example, by

comparing earnings relative to non-encouraged non-adopters in Section 3.1, any general

equilibrium effects that also affect these workers will be differenced out. This appendix

assesses the potential magnitude of such spillovers.

                                                           98
