E.3    Perceived Impacts

This appendix provides further detail on the perceived impacts reported in Section E.3.

As a complement to the difference-in-differences analysis of labor market outcomes,

respondents were asked directly: “Have AI chatbots affected your labor earnings?” If so,

they were then asked: “By how much?”

   While individuals may struggle to assess such counterfactuals precisely, we treat their

responses as supplementary evidence based on a fundamentally different methodology

that helps address some of the limitations of our difference-in-differences analysis.

   First, as shown by Arcidiacono et al. (2020); Fuster, Kaplan and Zafar (2021);

Giustinelli and Shapiro (2024), subjective assessments can reveal individual-specific

treatment effects that may vary along unobservable dimensions not captured in survey

or register data. In particular, our heterogeneity analyses above may fail to isolate the

subset of workers most affected by AI chatbots.

   Second, while difference-in-differences estimates identify only differential impacts

among adopters, subjective assessments are less susceptible to this “missing intercept”

problem. For example, if chatbot availability constitutes an economy-wide shock, it

could affect earnings across entire occupations, regardless of individual or workplace

adoption. While our estimates in Section 3.1 identify effects only up to the wage impact on

non-encouraged non-adopters, we may still ask these workers about their perceived labor

market impacts from AI chatbots. If substantial occupation-wide general equilibrium

effects are unfolding, they may perceive the impact on their earnings even without adopting

the tools themselves.

   Finally, eliciting perceived earnings effects offers a bridge between the self-reported

work benefits in Section D and the observed earnings outcomes in Section 3. This

helps assess whether the weak link between perceived work-related benefits and observed

earnings outcomes reflects misperception on the part of workers—or instead an accurate

understanding that the pass-through from work-related gains to earnings is limited.

   Table E.11 reports workers’ perceived earnings impacts from AI chatbots, with Figure

                                            86
