is associated with a 1.4 percentage point decrease in encouragement), more productive

(a doubling of productivity corresponds to a 4.7 percentage point increase), and more

likely to be privately owned (associated with a 4.1 percentage point increase), but

not systematically larger than others.27,28 Younger and more productive firms are also

somewhat more likely to purchase enterprise chatbots and offer training. While firm size is

unrelated to encouraged-use policies and employer-provided training—perhaps due to the

low fixed costs of off-the-shelf chatbot solutions—larger firms are more likely to purchase

enterprise versions.

    Overall, however, chatbot initiatives are largely unrelated to observable firm characteris-

tics, which account for just 1.3% of the within-occupation variation in encouragement—far

less than the 10.6% explained by our 11 occupation categories alone. In other words,

many otherwise comparable firms have adopted markedly different strategies toward AI

chatbots, even for similar workers within the same occupation.

    Figure D.2 illustrates the chatbot packages adopted by different employers. Among

those that encourage chatbot use, 61% have an enterprise chatbot solution, 39% of

employees have received training, and 29% have both. Notably, enterprise chatbots

and training are present even in workplaces that do not encourage usage: 21% have an

enterprise solution, 11% provide training, and 4% do both. The fact that employers invest

in these tools without encouraging use suggests some initiatives may be aimed more at

mitigating misuse than enhancing productivity.
  27
     Table E.1 shows that these correlations with firms’ characteristics are robust to controlling for worker
characteristics.
  28
     Younger and more productive firms are commonly found to adopt new technologies faster; see, e.g.,
Acemoglu et al. (2022), who document adoption patterns for a range of advanced technologies in 2019,
including AI and robotics.




                                                    43
