A.1.3    Discussion

The preceding section examines the implications of workers self-selecting into chatbot

adoption based on their individual benefits. Beyond this margin of selection, at least two

additional forms of selection may be at play.

   First, firms that choose to encourage chatbots may be the ones with the greatest

benefits from the tools—even absent any encouragement initiatives—introducing potential

reverse causality between employer encouragement and reported benefits. In the framework

above, this corresponds to E being positively related to αb0 . Second, employers may target

their encouragement toward employees who are expected to benefit the most individually.

This would resemble a “rotation” of the cost and benefit schedules in Figure A.1, rather

than simple vertical shifts.

   Section E addresses both of these additional selection margins empirically. First,

Section E.4 examines whether employers select into encouragement based on their un-

derlying benefits from chatbot use. We show that the effects of encouragement remain

robust when controlling for a range of firm- and worker-level characteristics, including firm

age, size, and productivity, as well as workers’ detailed task mixes and other attributes.

These robustness checks show that the association between employer encouragement and

reported benefits is not driven by observable confounders.

   Second, Section E.5 implements a “coworker encouragement” design, using the average

encouragement reported by a worker’s colleagues to measure workplace-wide encourage-

ment rates. Because coworker encouragement rates capture only workplace-level variation,

this approach helps address potential bias arising from employers targeting encourage-

ment toward individual employees with the highest idiosyncratic benefits. As shown in

Table E.14 and Figure E.21, the findings remain largely robust when using coworker

encouragement as the source of variation.




                                             7
