adoption of Generative AI (Bick, Blandin and Deming, 2025; Hartley et al., 2025; Humlum

and Vestergaard, 2025). While our adoption patterns align with these studies, our key

contribution is to link survey responses to administrative data on labor market outcomes,

thereby moving the analysis beyond self-reported effects.4

       Third, while several experiments document sizable productivity gains from chatbot

use on specific tasks (Brynjolfsson, Li and Raymond, 2025; Cui et al., 2024; Dillon et al.,

2025; Noy and Zhang, 2023), it remains unclear how these gains translate into workers’

earnings and hours, as high-quality microdata on such outcomes are rarely available.

While our occupation-wide surveys show more modest gains—about 3% time savings

for the typical user—we still find null results even for workers and workplaces reporting

substantial productivity improvements. Nonetheless, we find a clear association between

adoption and occupational mobility, aligning with experimental evidence that chatbots

provide greater benefits to workers with less prior expertise.

       Fourth, we provide the first representative account of employer adoption of AI chatbots.

Whereas surveys on traditional “pre-generative” AI show relatively low uptake (Acemoglu

et al., 2022; Bonney et al., 2024), we find that most employers in exposed occupations

have now embraced AI chatbots. Alternative firm-level data on Generative AI come from

online job postings, where adoption is proxied by the listing of Generative AI skills in job

descriptions (Lichtinger and Hosseini Maasoum, 2025; Schubert, 2025). While job postings

indicate notable changes in such proxies after ChatGPT’s release, it is less clear how well

they capture employees’ actual use of tools, especially non-specialized ones like chatbots.

We address this gap by surveying workers on their chatbot use and employer initiatives,

linking responses to administrative firm data. Although employer chatbot initiatives have

not led to net changes in earnings or hours, they strongly predict the emergence of new

AI-related job tasks (Acemoglu and Restrepo, 2018a; Autor et al., 2024).
   4
     Most recently, the AI labs have started to release descriptive statistics on their internal usage data
(Chatterji et al., 2025; Handa et al., 2025; Tomlinson et al., 2025). A complementary strength of our
survey data is that we can capture the full range of AI chatbot products, link responses to external data
sets (e.g., administrative labor market records), and sample both users and non-users from a well-defined
population frame.



                                                    4
