             Figure D.6: Total Time Savings from AI Chatbots in % of Work Hours

         Marketing Professionals
         Software Developers
         HR Professionals
         IT Support
         Customer Service
         Legal Professionals
         Office Clerks
         Journalists
         Financial Advisors
         Accountants
         Teachers

                                   0     1         2         3         4         5         6         7          8
                                              Encouraged Adopters      Non-Encouraged Adopters

Notes: This figure presents workers’ time savings from AI chatbots, categorized by workers’ occupations and employer
policies. The figure focuses on workers who have ever used AI chatbots for work. Occupations are sorted by their average
time savings among encouraged users. We estimate total time savings by combining workers’ frequency of use (from Figure
D.3) with their reported time savings per day of usage (from Table D.2). Table E.9 decomposes the time savings into
each of its components: frequency of use, time savings per day of usage, and the covariance between the two. The table
notes provide additional details on how time savings and usage frequencies are coded. Sample: The figure is based on all
completed responses from the 2024 survey that can be linked to the registry data.



D.4         Comparison to the Literature

The widespread adoption of AI chatbots—and the substantial gender gaps in usage—are
                                                                  1
well documented in the literature.37 We contribute to this evidence by documenting that

employer initiatives for AI chatbot adoption are now common and play an important role

in shaping overall adoption rates and demographic disparities in usage.38

       The importance of employer policies in driving adoption aligns with Dillon et al. (2025),

who show that firm effects are a key determinant of workers’ uptake of a randomized offer

for Microsoft Copilot. The importance of training in closing gender gaps in adoption is
  37
      For example, our 2023 survey found that 39.8% of workers had used ChatGPT for work, with adoption
rates 15.9 percentage points lower among women within occupations (Humlum and Vestergaard, 2025)
(see Appendix E.1.4 for a comparison of the 2023 and 2024 adoption patterns). Higher adoption rates
among younger, less experienced, and higher-earning workers also replicate the patterns observed in our
earlier round. Bick, Blandin and Deming (2025) report similar adoption patterns among U.S. workers,
and Otis et al. (2024) show that gender gaps in Generative AI adoption are pervasive across contexts.
   38
      By contrast, earlier surveys found relatively low take-up rates of AI at the firm level. For example,
Bonney et al. (2024) document that as of February 2024, only 5.4% of U.S. firms reported using AI, with
adoption in the leading sector (Information) still below 20%.



                                                          55
