      spur demand, these workplaces could expand employment. In particular, Generative

     AI is argued to reshape organizational hierarchies by displacing entry-level positions

     (Brynjolfsson, Chandar and Chen, 2025). Section 3.3 analyzes these possibilities

      by estimating the effects of employer chatbot initiatives on workplace employment,

      early-career jobs, and job churn.

  3. Job mobility and sorting: If chatbots are especially useful for newcomers to an

      occupation, adopters may be more likely to switch occupations (Autor, 2024).

      Furthermore, AI chatbots may prompt workers who want to use them to move into

      firms that encourage their use. We examine these implications at both the worker

      and workplace levels.

   We use a series of difference-in-differences analyses to identify the relevant effects,

comparing adopters and non-adopters before and after the introduction of AI chatbots and

examining outcomes at both the worker and workplace levels. Appendix A.2 draws on our

theoretical framework to clarify the identifying assumptions and to provide a structural

interpretation of the estimates. Here, we highlight the key empirical challenges in our

analysis.

   A first concern in our analysis is that adoption may remain a relatively weak treatment:

workers may struggle to use the tools effectively, and firms may provide limited guidance

or infrastructure to support their implementation. Section 1.4 showed that employer

encouragement is critical for unlocking both higher use and greater reported benefits.

We use these “AI front-runner” workplaces—those with encouraged use—as our primary

workplace treatment, as they offer a window into the effects of AI chatbots as employers

embrace the tools. We also examine the effects of additional investments in employer-

provided chatbots and training. At the individual level, we also analyze heterogeneity by

intensity of use and reported gains.

   A second key concern is that adopters may have fared differently in the labor market

even without AI chatbots. We take two steps to address this issue. First, we control


                                           11
