D.2.3       User-Reported Benefits

Table D.2 shows how users’ reported benefits vary with their employer initiatives.

       Encouraged-use policies not only increase worker adoption of chatbots; they are also

consistently linked to greater reported benefits, including larger time savings, higher

quality, greater creativity, and improved job satisfaction. By contrast, enterprise chatbots

and employer training, when introduced in isolation, are associated with lower reported

productivity gains—suggesting these measures are often aimed more at preventing misuse

than at enhancing the productivity of off-the-shelf tools. Finally, the largest reported

benefits generally arise when employers adopt the full package: encouragement, enterprise

chatbots, and training.

       The Roy adoption model in Appendix A.1 offers two explanations for why enterprise

chatbots and training, when used in isolation, may be associated with lower reported

benefits. First, these initiatives might reduce the time saved for all users. For instance,

if employers implement training or invest in proprietary chatbots primarily to impose

guardrails or prevent misuse, such constraints may also limit workers’ ability to fully

exploit the tools’ productivity potential. Second, the lower average benefit may reflect

compositional effects: training and enterprise chatbots may expand adoption to workers

who inherently gain less from the technology. By contrast, the fact that encouraged-

use policies increase both adoption and average reported benefits suggests that the

common productivity gains are large enough to offset any negative selection from broader

adoption.32,33
  32
     Disentangling the individual-level causal effects from the selection effects would require additional
assumptions (e.g., on the functional form of the adoption model à la Heckman (1979)) or alternative
sources of variation (e.g., an instrument that shifts adoption costs without affecting perceived benefits).
We do not attempt to separate these effects, as we view the bundled impact of employer initiatives as
informative in itself, highlighting the average benefits of AI chatbots that may arise under these different
initiatives.
  33
     A less rosy interpretation of the benefits associated with encouraged-use policies in isolation is that
these workplaces have adopted a “move fast and break things” approach to chatbots, prioritizing rapid
deployment even at the risk of errors. In contrast, workplaces that offer training or enterprise chatbots
may pursue a slower but potentially more sustainable path. If women are more sensitive to such risks,
this interpretation may also help explain why encouraged-use policies alone widen the gender gap in daily
use (see Table E.3).



                                                    50
