0% to 0.5%, depending on their occupation and their employer’s policy on use. These

estimates are an order of magnitude smaller than the time savings reported in Section 1.4

and fall within the confidence intervals of the observed earnings effects in Section 3.1.19

       Second, the limited average earnings impacts primarily reflect the overwhelming share

of workers reporting no change in earnings due to AI chatbots—rather than large positive

and negative effects offsetting each other. This supports our conclusion from Figures 4

and 5 that AI chatbots have not had significant heterogeneous impacts on workers.

       Finally, the fact that virtually 100% of non-adopters report no earnings impact suggests

that occupation-wide spillovers are minimal. Despite broad adoption and changes in work

content, AI chatbots do not appear to have shifted equilibrium wages or hours.

       Taken together, these self-reported perceptions from front-line workers in the most

exposed occupations reinforce our conclusion that AI chatbots have so far had limited

impacts on labor markets.


5        Conclusion

Generative AI is heralded as the engine of a new industrial revolution (World Economic

Forum, 2024), yet we lack evidence on its economic impacts outside laboratory settings

and case studies (Brynjolfsson, Li and Raymond, 2025; Noy and Zhang, 2023).

       This paper provides large-scale and representative evidence on the early labor market

impacts of AI chatbots, the most widely adopted Generative AI tool to date. Our study

is based on a series of extensive surveys on AI chatbot usage in 11 exposed occupations,

linked to administrative labor market data in Denmark.

       Despite rapid adoption and substantial investments by both workers and firms, our

key takeaway is that AI chatbots have had minimal impact on earnings and total hours

to date. Moreover, we find no evidence of differential trends over time—even among “AI

front-runners”—suggesting that the limited effects may persist.
  19
    As shown in Figure E.19, workers themselves report that only 3-7% of their time savings translate
into higher earnings.



                                                 22
