large work-related benefits.


Occupational Heterogeneity. The overall zero effects could mask important hetero-

geneity across occupations. For instance, since teachers are covered by collective bargaining

with centralized wage setting, it may be less surprising that individual productivity gains

do not translate into higher earnings. By contrast, occupations such as marketing and

software development feature decentralized wage setting, allowing more flexibility to adjust

pay based on individual productivity. In Appendix C.1, we provide an overview of the

wage-setting systems in each occupation. Comparing across occupations thus provides a

way to assess whether the limited impacts of AI chatbots reflect labor market rigidities.12

       Figure 5, Panel (a) shows the estimated effects of AI chatbots on worker earnings for

each of the 11 occupations in our sample. We find no significant effects in any occupation:

the point estimates are all near zero and the confidence bands generally rule out effects

larger than 10%. Even in our two most contrasting occupation groups—software developers

and marketers (with flexible wages) versus teachers (with centralized wage-setting)—we

see no systematic differences in impact.


Discussion. Our administrative data show that users of AI chatbots have not experi-

enced better outcomes in the labor market. Even among workers who use the tools daily

and report substantial benefits, we find no net changes in earnings or hours, not even a

break in trend.

       Are the weak wage effects of chatbot use theoretically surprising? Competitive labor

markets (e.g., our framework in Appendix A.2) imply that workers should be compensated

for productivity gains that are not driven by employer initiatives (Acemoglu and Pischke,

1998; Becker, 1964). From this perspective, it is surprising that individual-specific

benefits from AI chatbots—such as those among non-encouraged or high-use, high-benefit

adopters—do not translate into higher earnings. On the other hand, if employers do
  12
    Furthermore, marketing professionals and software developers are exactly the occupations with the
highest reported use and productivity gains from the tools (Appendix D.3).



                                                 16
