not endorse or invest in the tools, they may be reluctant to reward their use. From this

perspective, it is surprising that adopters supported by employer initiatives have not

experienced earnings gains.

       Another possibility is that workers simply overestimate the actual benefits they derive

from the tools (Becker et al., 2025; Edelman, Ngwe and Peng, 2023).13 The key contribution

of our study is to link these responses to third-party recorded administrative data, allowing

us to move the analysis beyond self-reported effects.


3.2       Occupational Mobility

Figure 2, Panel (c) shows that adopters have seen greater occupational switching since the

arrival of AI chatbots. By 2024, the additional hours worked in their latest occupations

amount to about 4% of a full-time equivalent. The figure provides four insights.

       First, the flat pre-trend prior to the arrival of chatbots suggests that the association

between occupation switching and chatbot adoption reflects a real effect rather than

omitted confounders (e.g., more dynamic workers both adopting chatbots and switching

jobs more generally). This contrasts with the earnings gaps in Panel (a), which were

entirely attributable to type-specific selection.

       Second, the figure supports the notion that chatbots appeal to workers who are new

to their occupations. This correlation may reflect that chatbots facilitate occupational

switching or, perhaps more likely, that they are simply more attractive after a switch. While

the difference-in-differences estimates do not settle the direction of causality, they clearly

establish that chatbot adoption and occupational switching are intrinsically linked.14

       Third, the significant estimates provide reassurance that our empirical specification

can detect effects where one might hold a prior that a dynamic correlation exists, offering

a useful contrast to other outcomes (e.g., worker earnings or workplace employment)
  13
     Consistent with experimental evidence from Becker et al. (2025), Appendix E.1.6 shows that workers
who report greater time savings from chatbots are also more likely to have new tasks from the tools.
  14
     In contrast, Appendix E.2.2 shows that the association between chatbot adoption and workplace
mobility is weaker, and occupational mobility is no stronger at workplaces that encourage chatbot use.
These patterns align with Figure 4, Panel (b), which indicates that occupational switching is driven
primarily by individual rather than firm-level factors.


                                                 17
