3%, and our pooled difference-in-differences estimates rule out effects larger than 2%.11

Second, these effects show no differential trends after the introduction of AI chatbots,

indicating that the minimal impacts are not merely a very short-term phenomenon. Lastly,

despite evidence in Section 1.4 that employer encouragement boosts work-related benefits

of AI chatbots, we find no differential changes in earnings for workers whose employers

encourage their chatbot use.


Heterogeneity by Strength of Treatment. Figure 4, Panel (a) examines the earnings

impacts of chatbot use by the strength of the adoption treatment.

       The top three rows consider the effects of additional investments in employer-provided

chatbots and training. These estimates offer insights into the impacts of AI chatbots

when firms pursue a more comprehensive strategy. Yet even when the “full package” of

encouraged use, enterprise chatbots, and training substantially increases reported benefits

(Section 1.4), we find no detectable impact on adopter earnings.

       The next two rows focus on more intensive users—those who engage with AI chatbots

daily or who adopted early (within the first year after ChatGPT’s launch). These workers

have not experienced earnings gains either.

       The remaining rows examine workers who report greater benefits from AI chatbot usage:

time savings exceeding one hour per day, higher-quality output, enhanced creativity, and

engagement with new AI-related tasks. While these self-reported benefits are substantial,

the estimates show none of them is associated with better labor market outcomes in our

administrative data.

       Taken together, Figure 4.(a) suggests that the null earnings effects are not simply

the result of weak treatments—at either the firm or worker level. Workers in firms that

adopt a more active, multifaceted approach to AI chatbots do not see differential earnings

impacts. Nor do those who use the tools more frequently, adopted them earlier, or report
  11
    The dynamic difference-in-differences in Figure 2.(b) reveal that adopters are on slightly stronger
labor market trends. However, because these trends entirely predate AI chatbots, the pooled difference-
in-differences in Figure 5.(a) (which control for pre-trends; see Equation (2)) are precise zeros, with
confidence bands ruling out effects larger than 2%.


                                                 15
