(with collective bargaining)—we observe no systematic differences in employment impacts.

Moreover, while Appendix G.2 documents aggregate declines in early-career jobs in several

of our exposed occupations, including software development, customer support, legal

professions, and marketing, these declines are not driven by firms adopting Generative AI

chatbots.


Discussion. In summary, workplaces that have adopted AI chatbots have not fared

differently in terms of their employment, early-career jobs, job churn, and worker mix.

These limited impacts contrast with the widespread creation of new job tasks revealed by

our survey (Section 1.4). These patterns are consistent with the productivity J-curves

often observed in the early phases of a new technology (Brynjolfsson, Li and Raymond,

2025; McElheran et al., 2025): while organizations have started to reorganize internally

in response to AI chatbots, devoting substantial resources to integration, training, and

oversight, these developments have not yet manifested in measurable changes in recorded

hours or earnings.


4     Supplementary Evidence
4.1    Perceived Impacts

To complement the difference-in-differences analysis of labor market impacts, we simply

asked respondents directly: “Have AI chatbots affected your labor earnings?” If so, we

followed up with, “By how much?” If AI chatbots were meaningfully changing labor

market conditions in exposed occupations, we might expect “front-line workers” in those

occupations to notice and report such changes.

    Appendix E.3 reports workers’ perceived earnings impacts from AI chatbots. Tellingly,

virtually all respondents—97.7% of adopters and 99.5% of non-adopters—state that AI

chatbots have had no impact on their labor earnings. While individuals may struggle to

assess such counterfactuals precisely, these responses indicate three implications.

    First, even workers themselves report small average earnings impacts, ranging from

                                            21
