   The analytical derivations above, for simplicity, assumed that differences across workers

and firms arise solely from chatbot use and employer encouragement. A more realistic set-

ting allows for baseline heterogeneity in worker productivity (Hij (Aij ) = Hi0 exp(Bij Aij ))

and firm-level product demand (Yj = Yj0 Pj−ϵ ). For example, Figure 2.(a) shows that

workers who adopted AI chatbots were already earning more before chatbots became

available, and that employers who adopted enterprise solutions were already larger prior

to adoption.

   Even with such heterogeneity, the causal effects of chatbot adoption can still be

identified using difference-in-differences. The key assumption is that baseline heterogeneity

is time-invariant and enters the outcome equations in a log-additive way, such that it

cancels out when examining log changes over time. For example:


         ∆Hij = log(Hi0 exp(Bij Apost                     pre           post
                                 ij )) − log(Hi0 exp(Bij Aij )) = Bij (Aij   − Apre
                                                                                ij )     (39)

          ∆Yj = −ϵ(log(Yj0 Pjpost ) − log(Yj0 Pjpre )) = −ϵ(log Pjpost − log Pjpre ),    (40)


where ∆X = log X post − log X pre denotes log changes over time (after vs. before the

arrival of AI chatbots).

   More generally, if baseline heterogeneity varies over time, the identifying assumption

is that workers (firms) do not adopt (encourage) chatbots in response to anticipated

shocks to their baseline human capital Hi0 (or product demand Yj0 ). This assumption

is consistent with the policy rules for adoption and encouragement (Equations (16) and

(22)), which do not depend on baseline human capital or product demand.


Worker-level adoption–encouragement difference-in-differences. The earnings

equation in (28) motivates the three difference-in-differences estimators used in Section

E.2.1.


1. Productivity effect among non-encouraged adopters (Non-encouraged adopters




                                                 20
