E.5      Coworker Encouragement

A key focus of our analysis is the link between employer chatbot initiatives and labor

market outcomes. Section 1.4 shows how workers’ adoption and reported work effects vary

with these initiatives, and Section 3 uses employer-encouraged use as the main workplace

treatment.

   While our main analysis relies on self-reported employer encouragement, this appendix

demonstrates robustness to using coworker reports. At the individual level, this helps

assess whether effects reflect workplace-wide initiatives or individual interventions; at the

workplace level, it addresses concerns about attenuation bias from survey measurement

error.

   We focus the robustness analysis on encouraged use, our primary workplace treatment.

Section E.5.1 describes how we construct coworker measures, and Section E.5.2 shows that

our findings hold when using coworker encouragement, replicating first the adoption and

self-reported work effects from Section 1.4, then the labor market results from Section 3.

E.5.1    Empirical Strategy

To operationalize these ideas, we construct leave-one-out averages of coworkers’ reported

employer encouragement for each worker i:

                                            1       X
                     Encouragedj,−i =                        Encouragedk ,              (70)
                                        Nj(i) − 1 k∈j(i)\i

where Nj(i) denotes the number of respondents in the same workplace-occupation cell j(i)

as worker i.

   The coworker measurements are made possible by our workplace-based sampling design

(described in Section 1.3), which ensures that most respondents have coworkers who also

participated in the survey. To mitigate measurement error due to incomplete sample

coverage, we apply an empirical shrinkage procedure to the leave-out encouragement rates,

Encouragedj,−i (see Appendix H.2 for details on this method). Importantly, our results in

Section E.5.2 are robust to using the raw leave-out means instead.

                                             93
