patterns: workers with i < i∗ sort into encouraged firms and adopt chatbots, while those

with i > i∗ sort into non-encouraged firms and do not adopt.

    Figure A.3 illustrates the case where employer encouragement increases adopter earn-

ings. However, as shown above, encouragement can also reduce adopter earnings—reversing

the solid lines—depending on model parameters. In fact, if employer-encouraged chatbot

use provides enough amenity value (i.e., if αc1 is low), some encouraged adopters may

even experience earnings losses relative to non-encouraged non-adopters, with the solid

blue line crossing the dashed red one.

  Figure A.3: The Impact of AI Chatbots on Worker Sorting, Adoption, and Earnings

                         d log Y




                                                                                                        i
                                                ∗            ∗         ∗
                                                i (0)       i         i (1)


             Encouraged             Encouraged            Encouraged           Non-Encouraged               Optimal
              Adopters             Non-Adopters            Adopters             Non-Adopters                Sorting

Notes: This figure illustrates how AI chatbots affect workers’ sorting, adoption, and earnings across the distribution of AI
advantage. The x-axis ranks workers by their chatbot advantage i; the y-axis shows the resulting impact on earnings. The
blue and red lines represent earnings effects for each combination of worker and firm types. The gray line highlights the
optimal sorting and adoption patterns.




Workplace employment. The effect of employer encouragement on workplace employ-

ment (measured in headcounts, N ) depends on whether the increased demand for human

capital is offset by the productivity gains from adoption.

    The increase in human capital demand is given by:

                                                                       ϵ
                                            log H1 − log H0 =             κ.                                          (33)
                                                                      ϵ−1

                                                            18



                                            1
