D.2         Worker Adoption and Reported Effects
D.2.1        Regression Specification

Next, we examine how workers’ adoption of and benefits from AI chatbots vary with the

employer-led chatbot initiatives. Specifically, we compare workers in the same occupations

with similar characteristics and estimate how their adoption behaviors and reported

benefits vary with employer initiatives for AI chatbots:


                               Yi = γ ′ Xi + β ′ EmployerInitiativesi + εi ,                   (69)


where Yi is a chatbot-related outcome for worker i, such as use or reported benefits of AI

chatbots for work; Xi is a vector of worker pre-determined characteristics, including age,

gender, experience, and occupation fixed effects;29 and EmployerInitiativesi is a vector of

employer-driven initiatives, including encouraging employees to use AI chatbots, investing

in enterprise chatbot solutions, providing employee training— and combinations thereof.

We estimate Equation (69) by OLS and cluster the standard errors by workplace-occupation

level.

       The specification in Equation (69) is motivated by the literature on “Productivity J-

Curves,” which emphasizes that complementary organizational investments may be critical

for realizing the gains from new technologies (Brynjolfsson and Hitt, 2000; Brynjolfsson,

Rock and Syverson, 2021). Moreover, because early adoption of AI chatbots was largely

worker-driven, this analysis sheds light on the extent to which employers can move the

needle and influence outcomes by also investing in the technology. Appendix A.1 presents

a Roy-style model of chatbot adoption to help interpret the estimates in Equation (69).

We draw on this framework in the discussions that follow.

       Although employer initiatives are not assigned through a randomized design, our

rich data on firms and workers allow us to examine the robustness of our findings to

several potential confounders. Appendix E.4 presents these robustness checks. First,

we show that all results hold when controlling for firm characteristics (from Table D.1),
  29
       All worker characteristics are measured in 2022, before AI chatbots became available.


                                                    46
