wage bills, job creation or destruction, or composition of hires or separations, including

early-career workers. These null results hold across occupations and persist even where

encouragement is paired with enterprise chatbot solutions and training. While internal

reorganization is underway, with workers reporting new AI-related tasks—especially in

workplaces with chatbot initiatives—these changes have not translated into measurable

differences in earnings or hours.

   Overall, our findings challenge narratives of imminent labor market disruption from

Generative AI. While we capture early impacts, two pieces of evidence suggest the

limited labor market effects may persist in the foreseeable future. First, our dynamic

difference-in-differences estimates remain flat throughout the two-year study period.

Second, even among “AI front-runners”—workplaces that have adopted the full suite of

proactive chatbot initiatives and workers who adopted early, use the tools daily, or report

substantial benefits—the results remain null.


Contributions to the Literature. The key contribution of this paper is to link

large-scale, representative data on AI chatbot adoption to labor market outcomes in

administrative records. This linkage brings critical nuance to existing evidence on how

Generative AI relates to labor market outcomes.

   First, a contemporaneous set of studies uses exposure measures—technical assessments

of which job tasks are feasible to assist with AI chatbots—to examine whether exposed

occupations have fared differently after the release of ChatGPT.Brynjolfsson, Chandar and

Chen (2025) document a sharp decline in employment of early-career workers in AI-exposed

occupations in the United States since 2022, suggesting that Generative AI may already

be disrupting labor markets. Our key contribution is to split these employment trends by

whether firms have actually adopted Generative AI. While we replicate the U.S. pattern of

declining early-career jobs in exposed occupations in Denmark, our difference-in-differences

analysis reveals that the declines are not driven by firms adopting AI chatbots.

   Second, a small but growing number of studies field worker-level surveys on the


                                             3
