new responsibilities introduced by AI tools.

    The importance of task creation for the impact of AI chatbots on workloads supports

key theoretical predictions for how automation technologies may reinstate the demand for

labor in the production process (Acemoglu and Restrepo, 2019; Autor et al., 2024). To

further understand how AI chatbots affect the nature of work, we asked respondents to

describe the new job tasks they perform as a result of AI chatbots. In Appendix B.3, we

categorize the free-text responses into common new tasks associated with AI chatbots

in each occupation. AI chatbots have generated new job tasks for workers across all 11

occupations, with 50% to 95% of these directly linked to AI use.

    Appendix B.3 breaks down the composition of AI-related job tasks by occupation

and task category, and provides example tasks for each pair. Notably, most new work

revolves around integrating and overseeing the use of AI chatbots. Specifically, only 41%

of new tasks focus on “productive AI use” (AI Ideation, AI Content Drafting, and AI

Data Insights), while the remaining 59% relate to “AI implementation and oversight” (AI

Quality Review, AI Integration, and AI Ethics & Compliance).35

    Figure E.10 shows that ethics and compliance tasks are especially common among

workers who have received employer-provided training in AI chatbots. In contrast,

workplaces that merely encourage chatbot use have a higher share of “productive AI tasks”

focused on content generation and ideation.

    Consistent with the finding that AI chatbot workloads extend beyond direct use,

Figure D.5.(b) shows that 5% of non-users report new workloads resulting from AI

chatbots, with the effects most pronounced in workplaces with chatbot initiatives. In

particular, Figure B.1.(b) shows that 10% of teachers who have not used AI chatbots

report new workloads from the technology—almost entirely due to newly assigned tasks.
  35
     The most common task relates to the integration of AI chatbots into the workplace, accounting for
15%–40% of all new tasks, with the highest shares observed in IT support and software development. AI
Integration refers to embedding AI chatbots into workflows to automate or enhance tasks. For example,
software developers report “fine-tuning AI coding assistants by providing feedback and project-specific
examples,” legal professionals describe “developing organizational AI usage policies and guidelines,” and
teachers mention “adapting exams and assignments to account for AI tool usage.”




                                                   52
