30        ILO Working Paper 140




     XX   5 Adjustment of survey sub-sample


     In the next step, we compared the average of expert scores with the original mean survey scores
     using two independent AI models as impartial arbiters to propose an adjusted score.13 The mod-
     els were informed about the sources of the scores in such a way that would prevent them from
     automatically siding with the expert group: group one was defined as “practical knowledge of the
     work and types of tasks they were presented, since they worked in the same occupational groups from
     which we selected tasks they scored”, while the second group was described as “respondents with
     more theoretical knowledge of technology and labour markets”. Rather than simply averaging the
     two scores, the models were explicitly instructed to focus their analysis on the task characteris-
     tics and the current capabilities of generative AI and required to provide justifications for each
     adjustment and its relative position to the original scores.


      XX Figure 13. Task-level scores from the survey and experts, compared to AI-arbitrated scores




     The overall correlation between the adjusted scores produced by the two AI models is 0.96, with
     correlations within occupational groups exceeding 0.9 in all but one case14 (Figure 14). This high
     level of agreement demonstrates that, when provided with sufficient background knowledge
     in the form of reference ranges of scores, the models converge on remarkably similar predic-
     tions. Notably, only three tasks exhibited an absolute difference in scores exceeding 0.2 (orange
     dots in Figure 13). In these cases, GPT-4o tended to adopt a more optimistic perspective on the
     feasibility of automation, whereas Gemini emphasized the importance of human judgment as
     a critical factor.




     13
          We used OpenAI’s GPT-4o and Google’s Gemini Flash 1.5, which have comparable abilities. We also tested OpenAI o1, which at the
          time of writing was among the models with strongest capacities of « algorithmic reasoning » and observed very similar results. The
          process was set up as a cycle of sequential API calls, which loop over each task and capture the response into a data frame.
     14
          Public authorities, senior officials and managers in Figure 10.
