27         ILO Working Paper 140




     XX    4 Expert validation survey


     The expert group includes international specialists at the ILO and its partner organizations, NASK
     and the Polish Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.9 The primary criterion for expert se-
     lection is their understanding of labour markets, including the complexity of occupations and
     tasks, and their real-life applications. While the experts are expected to have familiarity with the
     current family of generative AI technologies and their applications, expertise in AI design or de-
     velopment is not a requirement. This approach ensures that the focus remains on the feasibility
     and practical implications of automation within existing technological constraints, as technolo-
     gy experts tend to overstate technological capacities and risks when evaluating broader appli-
     cations, particularly in workplace settings (Karger et al., 2023). This tendency is evident in earlier
     automation studies, which often assigned high displacement potential to routine tasks or en-
     tire occupations, such as garment production. As de Mattos et al. (2020) illustrate, these tech-
     nological predictions frequently failed to account for the challenges of automating tasks requir-
     ing high dexterity or handling complex materials, such as stitching pliable fabrics. Accordingly,
     the assessment of automation potential in our study prioritizes expertise of task execution and
     workplace realities over purely technological expertise.

     Since the experts cannot review all 2,861 tasks used in the survey, we focus on a representative
     sub-sample, selected in such a way to subsequently permit adjustments to entire task clusters.
     The overall scheme of this score adjustment procedure is presented in Figure 11.


         XX Figure 11. Schema of the scoring stages




     First, we cluster the tasks into four fixed intervals, based on the distribution of the mean scores
     from the survey.10 We then use hierarchical clustering to group similar tasks within those clusters
     based on their semantic content. First, we assign embeddings to each task description using the
     text-embedding-ada-002 model from OpenAI. Next, for each subgroup – defined by the combina-
     tion of an occupational group at ISCO-08 1-digit level and a particular survey score cluster – we



     9
           A full list of contributors is provided in the acknowledgements section.
     10
           μϵ[0,0.1]υ(0.1,0.3]υ(0.3,0.5]υ(0.5,1]
