09     ILO Working Paper 140




     XX   Introduction

     In August 2023, the ILO published the first global employment estimates of potential occupa-
     tional exposure to generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) (Gmyrek et al., 2023). This research
     was prompted by concerns – that have featured prominently in the media – of the potential for
     the technology to replace large shares of knowledge work.

     Since the release of the 2023 estimates, there have been further technological advances in GenAI,
     including the introduction of Large Language Models (LLMs) with expanded capabilities in image
     recognition and audio and video production. Moreover, many new GenAI applications have been
     developed as a result of the possibility of linking GenAI models with Application Programming
     Interface (API) tools. Indeed, GenAI has been likened to a general-purpose technology, meaning
     that it may continue generating new applications and innovations across various sectors, driving
     long-term economic and societal transformations.

     Despite this rapidly developing landscape, it is important for policy makers to develop deeper
     understanding of how technological advances might impact existing jobs. To address this need,
     the Research department of the ILO has partnered with NASK, the National Research Institute
     of the Ministry of Digital Affairs in Poland, to develop a more precise assessment of potential ef-
     fects of GenAI on employment across countries.

     This study builds on the method developed by the ILO (Gmyrek, Berg and Bescond, 2023 - GBB
     hereafter), which used task descriptions from the 4-digit International Standard Classification
     of Occupations (ISCO-08) and the GPT-4 model to estimate task-level and occupational scores of
     exposure to GenAI technology and then derives global employment estimates based on official
     ILO labour force data. But the study includes several key refinements.

     The first step in our analysis is based on Poland’s national 6-digit classification of occupations
     that includes nearly 30,000 tasks. This expands tenfold the number of tasks given in the ISCO-
     08 structure and enables a fine-grained assessment of tasks’ automation potential, based on
     a more up-to-date set of occupations and tasks than those captured in the ISCO-08 system. As
     Poland’s 6-digit classification is aligned with the 4-digit ISCO-08, the occupational scores can be
     compiled at the 4-digit level allowing a straightforward comparison and updating of the 2023
     estimates of the ILO (GBB). In addition, the study improves the methodological framework of
     GBB, by drawing on the combined strengths of human and AI abilities, with an additional layer
     of expert verification.

     Specifically, we surveyed 1,640 people currently employed in Poland in each ISCO-08 1-digit
     group to rank the automation potential of a representative sample of tasks that pertain to their
     occupational group. As the second step, we asked a mix of national and international experts
     to conduct a detailed review of a large sample of tasks previously assessed in the survey to val-
     idate or adjust the level of automation scores through an iterative process. Since we maintain
     the hierarchical link to ISCO-08 and focus on technological feasibility rather than specific coun-
     try context, by combining opinions of local and international experts, we create a system that
     enables more precise predictions of the potential of automation of individual occupational tasks
     with GenAI technology, including at the international level. To achieve that, we input the human
     scores into an AI model, to generate scores reflecting human judgement for nearly 30,000 in-
     dividual tasks pertaining to 2,500 occupations at 6-digit level in Poland. We then use the same
     AI predictor to re-generate scores for the tasks in ISCO-08, previously provided by GBB (2023),
     thereby adjusting the 2023 index of the ILO, which now benefits from both the input of people
