38        ILO Working Paper 140




     may occur, but without significantly altering the nature of these roles, and the lowest category of
     Not Exposed occupations, where GenAI currently has no observable potential to automate tasks.


      XX Table 5. GenAI Exposure Gradients: Definition and Interpretation


      GenAI Exposure                    Definition (Mean & SD of           Interpretation
                                        Task Scores)

      Exposed: Gradient 4               μ ≥ 0.6 and μ - σ >= 0.5           High and consistent GenAI exposure across tasks with-
                                                                           in the occupation. Most current tasks in these jobs have
      (Highest exposure, low task
                                                                           a high potential of automation, with little variability in
      variability)
                                                                           task-level exposure.

      Exposed: Gradient 3               0.5 ≤ μ < 0.6 and μ + σ ≥ 0.5      Above-moderate occupational exposure: even though
                                                                           some tasks remain less exposed, the overall potential of
      (Significant exposure, high
                                                                           automation of the current tasks with GenAI is growing in
      task variability)
                                                                           these occupations.

      Exposed: Gradient 2               0.4 ≤ μ < 0.5 and μ + σ ≥ 0.5      Moderate occupational AI exposure, with high task-level
                                                                           variability. These occupations include a mix of some tasks
      (Moderate exposure, high
                                                                           that are exposed to GenAI and others not at risk, making
      task variability)
                                                                           the impact uneven.

      Exposed: Gradient 1               μ < 0.4 and μ + σ ≥ 0.5            Low overall GenAI exposure at the occupational level, but
                                                                           high variability across tasks. Some tasks within these occu-
      (Low exposure, high task
                                                                           pations have an elevated automation potential, even if the
      variability)
                                                                           occupation as a whole remains strongly reliant on tasks
                                                                           that have a low potential of automation.

      Minimal Exposure                  μ < 0.5 and μ + σ > 0.4            Occupations with low GenAI exposure, where some tasks
                                                                           show moderate automation potential, but overall occupa-
      (Low exposure, moderate
                                                                           tional exposure remains limited.
      task variability)

      Not Exposed                       Occupations that don’t meet        Occupations where most tasks remain relatively unaffect-
                                        any of the above conditions.       ed by GenAI, with low task variability and a stable low mean
                                                                           exposure score.

     This revised framework addresses some limitations of the earlier categorization system, particu-
     larly the interpretative challenges posed by the category, “the big unknown". By expanding the
     exposure categories into a continuous gradient, the updated framework improves the readabil-
     ity and interpretability of results and enables us to stack employment estimates into the overall
     category of exposed occupations (Figure 17 in Section 10).18 It also captures in a more nuanced
     way how GenAI can impact occupations at varying levels of exposure, based on task-level vari-
     ability and overall occupational risks. Furthermore, the framework's flexibility enhances its ap-
     plicability to country-specific contexts, allowing policymakers to better understand the distribu-
     tion of GenAI's potential impact and prioritize interventions for the most affected groups in the
     national contexts.




     18
          One of the limitations of the current approach is that neither ISCO-08 nor the Polish classification system includes information on
          the relative frequency or importance of tasks within occupations. As a result, all tasks are weighted equally when calculating expo-
          sure scores. Future research could refine this by incorporating task-level weights, for instance by mapping to occupational databases
          such as O*NET or by collecting self-reported data on task relevance directly from workers. A similar refinement could concern map-
          ping the level of skills to individual tasks.
