36        ILO Working Paper 140




     resource-intensive and limited by our relatively small dataset.15 In contrast, by using a sufficiently
     large set of example tasks within the prompt, we can provide the model with explicit “demon-
     strations” of scoring of similar tasks in our main dataset. To ensure a balanced approach, we
     provide each prompt with a sample of tasks with the highest 50 and lowest 50 scores, alongside
     the scores of 30 tasks with greatest semantic similarity to the tasks that the model is request-
     ed to score. To create the semantic context, we construct a rapid-search vector database with
     all 2,861 adjusted scores. The database is queried at the start of each API call and extracts tasks
     with semantic similarity to the task that is being scored. Once the 30 most similar tasks have
     been retrieved, a set of complete instructions is passed to the model’s API, as per the general
     prompt strategy illustrated in Box 3.

     We first validate the predictive model using a sample of tasks from the survey that were adjust-
     ed as per sections 5-7, but not included in the semantic context provided to the model.16 Once
     the prompt adjustments deliver satisfactory performance, we use the same system to predict
     automation scores for 3,265 tasks in ISCO-08 (as in Gmyrek et al., 2023).17 This approach bridg-
     es expert-validated human assessments with the scalability of LLM-based predictions, enabling
     consistent and extensible scoring for tasks across classification systems.

     For a further refinement of our scoring system, we filter 364 tasks where the scoring in 2025
     changed by more than 25% of the absolute value of 2023 score. We review these tasks manually,
     using an expert consensus-building method. First, we conduct a mini survey among co-authors,
     in which each respondent is asked to arbitrate between the diverging scores. For 64 ISCO-08
     tasks, where we still observe a divergence of expert opinions, we conduct a detailed group dis-
     cussion, in order to reach consensus and agree on a justification.

     Following the final manual verification process, we establish a second knowledge repository, also
     stored in a vector database. The main LLM prompt is then updated to incorporate this additional
     reference by conducting two sequential semantic context retrievals for each prediction, further
     improving the model’s precision in predicting scores for new tasks. Using this approach, we gen-
     erate predictions for all 29,753 tasks in the Polish classification system (Table 1).

     To compare these 6-digit predictions with 4-digit ISCO-08 classifications, we calculate (i) the mean
     of all task scores aggregated at the 4-digit level and (ii) occupational means at the 6-digit level,
     subsequently deriving the 4-digit mean from these 6-digit components. In both cases, the corre-
     lation between predictions based on ISCO-08 tasks and Polish 6-digit tasks is 0.92, demonstrating
     exceptional stability of predictions. In other words, while one might question the exact scores
     assigned to tasks in our knowledge repository – a challenge not unique to our study – once the
     repository and prompting techniques are in place, the model consistently produces stable pre-
     dictions based on reference tasks and their scores, and irrespective of the occupational classifica-
     tion system. This approach offers promising possibilities for replication across other occupation-
     al classifications, which we intend to explore further. For the remainder of this paper, we focus
     primarily on revising ISCO-08 scores, leaving a detailed analysis of Poland’s 6-digit occupations
     for a separate study (Gmyrek et al., forthcoming, 2025).


     15
          See OpenAI fine-tuning guidelines and developer forum https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/fine-tuning.
     16
          These tasks were split into an 80-20 proportion, with 80% used for training and 20% reserved for validation. Performance was meas-
          ured using Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) and Mean Absolute Error (MAE), with the adjusted scores showing better agreement (MAE
          = 0.0494, RMSE = 0.0724) compared to the predicted scores (MAE = 0.0684, RMSE = 0.0963). Correlation analysis further supported
          this, with adjusted scores exhibiting higher Pearson (0.895) and Spearman (0.884) correlations than predicted scores (Pearson: 0.796,
          Spearman: 0.776). This is understandable, as the adjusted scores were based on two points of reference (survey score and expert
          score), making them more stable and easier to predict. In contrast, for the predicted scores, the test involves a repeated prediction
          process, which amplifies the original error.
     17
          There are 3,123 distinct tasks in ISCO-08 and 3,265 tasks in total, as some occupations share the same task.
