37      ILO Working Paper 140




     XX   8 Adjusted Global Index of GenAI Exposure


     To classify ISCO-08 occupations into varying levels of exposure to Generative AI (GenAI), we up-
     date the framework introduced in Gmyrek et al. (2023). Similarly to the original approach, we
     rely on two moments of distribution: occupational mean and standard deviation (SD) of task-lev-
     el scores pertaining to a given 4-digit occupation. However, instead of using automation and
     augmentation potential as two extreme categories with the "big unknown" in between, we now
     adopt a more nuanced classification scheme that represents a spectrum of exposure, with occu-
     pations considered as exposed classified into four increasing gradients (Figure 16 and Table 5).


     XX Figure 16. AI Exposure Gradients: ISCO-08 4-digit level occupations




     Note: Figure 16 presents all ISCO-08 4-digit occupations classified into GenAI exposure categories as per the criteria in Table 5.
     A detailed list of occupation-level means and SDs is available in the Appendix, Table A1. In addition, task-level scores within the
     overall hierarchy of ISCO-08 are available here: https://pgmyrek.github.io/2025_GenAI_scores_ISCO08/

     Gradient 1 represents occupations with low overall GenAI exposure but significant variability
     across tasks (Low exposure, high task variability). While some tasks within these roles may have
     high automation potential, the occupation has many tasks that continue requiring human roles,
     aligning closely with the notion of augmentation in the old framework. Gradient 2 includes occu-
     pations with moderate GenAI exposure and a mix of highly exposed and minimally exposed tasks,
     resulting in uneven impacts where some tasks may be disrupted while others remain unaffected
     (Moderate exposure, high task variability). Gradient 3 captures occupations where a significant
     portion of tasks are consistently exposed to GenAI, signaling growing automation risks and re-
     quiring adaptation strategies for workers (Significant exposure, high task variability). Gradient 4
     highlights occupations with the highest share of tasks exposed to potential GenAI-driven auto-
     mation, and with a high consistency of this exposure across tasks (Highest exposure, low task var-
     iability). This gradient aligns closely with the notion of automation risk in our earlier classification
     system (Gmyrek et al., 2023). In addition, among occupations outside these four categories, we
     introduce a more granular distinction of Minimal Exposure, where some interaction with GenAI
