20         ILO Working Paper 140




     removal would not introduce significant bias into the results. As the next step, we excluded 1,167
     observations where participants responded with 'Don't know' to the ranking of task automation
     potential. This ensures the analysis focuses only on responses where participants felt equipped
     to provide meaningful input.

     A detailed examination of “don’t know” answers showed that they occur twice as frequently in
     manual or technical fields – particularly among Technicians and Associate Professionals (Group
     3), Craft and Related Trades Workers (Group 7), Plant and Machine Operators and Assemblers
     (Group 8), and Elementary Occupations (Group 9) – than in other occupational groups.7 Since the
     differences in stated exposure and frequency of use of GenAI do not seem to justify this pattern
     (see section 4.5.2), it suggests that participants may have felt less equipped to assess the automa-
     tion potential of tasks requiring specialized technical expertise or manual skills. This is illustrated
     though the three tasks with the largest number of “don’t know” responses (7 each): (i) operating
     devices (centrifuges and filters) used for separating fermented milk mass into yeast slurry, (ii) record-
     ing delivered goods and collected coins (tokens), and (iii) organizing and cleaning the workstation.

     Following this exclusion, we retained a substantial sample of 1,535 respondents, contributing a
     total of 52,558 data points. These data points correspond exclusively to cases where participants
     provided valid responses to the primary survey question regarding the potential for task auto-
     mation. Importantly, this filtering process did not reduce the total number of tasks assessed,
     which remains at the representative sample size of 2,861, as calculated in Table 2.


         XX Figure 3. Age and sex distribution in the survey compared to Labour Force Survey (LFS) data in Poland (em-
            ployed individuals)




     The survey sample is well-balanced in terms of gender, with 51% female and 49% male respond-
     ents. The actual gender distribution among the employed population aged 18+ in Poland is
     more skewed toward men, with 53.9% of employed individuals being male and 46% female. As
     shown in Figure 3, this results in the survey overrepresenting female opinions in the younger
     age brackets (18–29 and 30–39).



     7
           On average, some 10% of answers in these technical groups were « don’t know » compared to 5% in other groups.
