41     ILO Working Paper 140




     XX Figure 18. Changes to occupational exposure between 2023 and 2025 within Gradient 4




     On the other hand, several highly digitized occupations have seen an increase in their mean
     scores. This applies, for example, to web and media developers, statistical and database special-
     ists, as well as financial and software-related occupations (Figure 17). A key factor behind this shift
     is the rapid expansion of AI capabilities since our previous study in 2023. At that time, large lan-
     guage models (LLMs) were primarily viewed as advanced text generators. Since then, they have
     acquired multimodal abilities, allowing them to process and generate not only text but also im-
     ages, audio, and video. Additionally, these models have been gaining some agentic capabilities,
     allowing them to execute multi-step tasks autonomously, interact with software environments,
     and make decisions based on contextual inputs. These advancements significantly broaden the
     scope of tasks that can be at least partially automated using GenAI, with software development
     and multimedia sectors among some of the leading adopters.

     While many of these occupations fall within gradient 3 and 4, one must consider that these roles
     are deeply intertwined with digital technologies, and indeed, many of these occupations have
     emerged as a result of technological advancements. The scores reflect the high potential of auto-
     mation among their current tasks, but these occupations also possess a strong capacity to evolve
     and develop new tasks through innovative application of GenAI and related digital tools. In pre-
     vious technological transitions, this type of adaptation was exemplified by the well-known case
     of bank tellers following the diffusion of automatic teller machines (ATMs) in the 1990s (Bessen,
     2016). As ATMs automated routine cash withdrawals, they also lowered operational costs, ena-
     bling banks to open more branches and, in turn, increasing the demand for bank tellers in roles
     that required more complex customer service and advisory tasks. One can therefore expect many
     tasks in these occupations not to remain static but rather to evolve alongside technological ad-
     vancements, driven by the expanding capabilities of GenAI. A key question – largely dependent
     on the policies shaping this evolution – is to what extent these jobs can retrain and retain exist-
     ing workers, rather than drive labor churn through workforce replacement and the recruitment
     of typically younger specialists (Ananian et al., 2006).
