01     ILO Working Paper 140




     Abstract

     This study updates the ILO’s 2023 Global Index of Occupational Exposure to Generative AI (GenAI),
     incorporating recent advances in the technology and increasing user familiarity with GenAI tools.
     Using a representative sample from the 29,753 tasks in the Polish occupational classification sys-
     tem and a survey of 1,640 people employed in each 1-digit ISCO-08 groups, we collect 52,558 data
     points regarding perceive potential of automation for 2,861 tasks. We then compare this input
     with a survey and several rounds of Delphi-style discussions among a smaller group of interna-
     tional experts. Based on this process, we create a repository of knowledge about task automa-
     tion that goes beyond national specificities and use it to develop an AI assistant able to predict
     scores for tasks in the technical documentation of ISCO-08.

     Our 2025 scores are presented in a revised framework of four progressively increasing exposure
     gradients, with a new set of global estimates of employment shares exposed to GenAI. Clerical
     occupations continue to have the highest exposure levels. Additionally, some strongly digitized
     occupations have increased exposure, highlighting the expanding abilities of GenAI regarding
     specialized tasks in professional and technical roles.

     Globally, one in four workers are in an occupation with some GenAI exposure. 3.3% of global
     employment falls into the highest exposure category, albeit with significant differences between
     female (4.7%) and male employment (2.4%). These differences increase with countries’ income
     (9.6% female vs 3.5% male in Gradient 4 in HICs), and so does the overall exposure (11% of total
     employment in LICs vs 34% in HICs). As most occupations consist of tasks that require human
     input, transformation of jobs is the most likely impact of GenAI. Linking our refined index with
     national micro data enables precise projections of such transformations, offering a foundation
     for social dialogue and targeted policy responses to manage the transition.




     About the authors

     Paweł Gmyrek is a Senior Researcher in the Research Department of the ILO.

     Janine Berg is a Senior Economist in the Research Department of the ILO.

     Karol Kamiński is a Senior Researcher in the Analysis and Research Department of the NASK-PIB.

     Filip Konopczyński is the Director of the Analysis and Research Department of the NASK-PIB.

     Agnieszka Ładna is a Manager in the Analysis and Research Department of the NASK-PIB.

     Konrad Rosłaniec is a Researcher in the Analysis and Research Department of the NASK-PIB.

     Marek Troszyński is an Expert in the Analysis and Research Department of the NASK-PIB and
     Assistant Professor at the Civitas University, Warsaw.
