workers, with no notable overall trend in employment shares over the sample period. The
bottom panel likewise shows no evident trend in real earnings.
    These patterns for entry level workers overall might mask trends in occupations more ex-
posed to AI. Figure A4 shows the employment share trends for entry level versus experienced
workers in the quartile of occupations most exposed to AI according to the GPT-4-based
β measure from Eloundou et al. (2024). Figure A5 similarly shows the employment trends
for entry level versus experienced workers in computer occupations. Both plots are noisy,
primarily because restricting to workers under the age of 26 reduces the sample size. With
more time and larger surveys it may become apparent whether trends are sustained.



5     Relationship between Job Postings and Employment

The general purpose nature of artificial intelligence has raised concerns of widespread em-
ployment declines, with some speculation that these trends are already visible within certain
industries such as software development. One piece of evidence taken to suggest employment
declines already are in job posting trends from sources such as Indeed. As shown in Figure
5, the number of job postings for software developers has fallen since a peak in early 2022.
    Three aspects of the data suggest caution in interpreting the job posting trends to signal
labor market disruption for software developers caused by AI.

    1. The number of job postings has fallen for a range of other occupations as well, including
       in professions such as nursing with low estimated AI exposure. This suggests that the
       decline is not specific to software developers.

    2. While the decline is steeper for software developers than other professions, the peak
       in early 2022 is also considerably higher. This could indicate macroeconomic trends in
       the tech sector that led to a boom and bust in job postings unrelated to AI.

    3. The decline in job postings is not matched by a decline in employment in the software
       development occupation in the CPS, as shown in Figure 2. If anything there is some

                                               12
