a relatively stable US national unemployment rate and labor force participation rate over
the same period. These findings urge caution in interpreting labor market trends from job
postings alone.
        Because the CPS is released monthly and is publicly accessible, the method in this paper
can be used to track changes in occupational employment on an ongoing and transparent
basis. While the CPS’s sample size limits statistical power for granular groups like entry-level
workers, its strength lies in providing a consistent, high-frequency view of the entire U.S.
labor market. This paper thus clarifies the current state of facts and provides a foundation
for future work using larger-scale administrative or internal Census data to further probe
the mechanisms behind these divergent outcomes.2



2         Related Literature

This paper engages with three active areas of research on the labor market effects of arti-
ficial intelligence. First, it builds on literature that measures AI’s potential exposure. A
series of influential papers established methodologies for estimating which occupations were
susceptible to automation (Frey and Osborne, 2017; Brynjolfsson et al., 2018; Felten et al.,
2018, 2019; Webb, 2019; Felten et al., 2021). More recently, work such as Eloundou et al.
(2024); Felten et al. (2023); Gmyrek et al. (2023), and Gmyrek et al. (2025) adapted this
approach for Generative AI, forming the basis for exposure metrics used in this analysis.
While these studies identify potential disruption, this paper’s contribution is to use broad,
representative U.S. survey data (the CPS) to provide one of the earliest empirical snapshots
of realized employment changes in the post-ChatGPT era. This complements studies that
find significant effects but in more specific settings, such as on online freelance platforms
(Hui et al., 2023) or within individual firms (Brynjolfsson et al., 2025; Dillon et al., 2025).3
        Second, this paper contributes to the growing body of work using economy-wide data to
    2
        All code is posted online at https://github.com/chandarb/CPS_tracker.
    3
        See also Noy and Zhang (2023); Peng et al. (2023); Dell’Acqua et al. (2023).



                                                        3
