weighted” (IW) estimators for estimating dynamic treatment effects. The IW estimators are formed by first

estimating C ATTe,` with a regression saturated in cohort and relative period indicators, and then averaging

estimates of C ATTe,` across e at a given `. These C ATTe,` are identified under parallel trends and no

anticipation assumptions. These estimators are easy to implement and robust to heterogenous treatment

effects across cohorts; the IW estimator associated with relative period ` is guaranteed to estimate a convex

average of C ATTe,` using weights that are sample share of each cohort e.

   Finally, we illustrate the empirical relevance of our results by estimating the dynamic effect of hospi-

talization on the out-of-pocket medical spending and labor earnings using a setup similar to Dobkin et al.

(2018). We find non-convex and non-zero weights for two-way fixed effects regression in this example,

and show that the resulting estimates indeed sometimes fall outside the convex hull of the underlying CATT

estimates due to contamination by treatment effects from other relative periods. IW estimates, on the other

hand, are weighted averages of the underlying CATT estimates with weights representative of cohort share.

   More broadly, our paper suggests that researchers can do more in this context to assess the validity of

underlying assumptions and how violations may impact their estimates. We demonstrate the sensitivity of

two-way fixed effects regressions to underlying assumptions and provide researchers with tools to assess

and address these issues. Specifically, for average treatment effects estimated using two-way fixed effects

regressions we recommend that empirical researchers directly estimate the underlying weights on cohort-

specific average treatment effects using our proposed auxiliary regressions. This exercise allows empirical

researchers to assess the degree of potential contamination under any assumed structure of treatment effects

heterogeneity. We also recommend empirical researchers consider estimation methods more robust to treat-

ment effects heterogeneity such as the IW estimator we propose. Developing additional tools for applied

researchers to identify and estimate interpretable parameters of interest is a promising avenue for future

research.




                                                     30
