1.1     Related Literature

This paper makes two main contributions within an active literature on the causal interpretations of two-

way fixed effects models in settings with staggered treatment adoption (Athey and Imbens, 2018; Borusyak

and Jaravel, 2017; Callaway and Sant’Anna, 2020a; de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille, 2020; Goodman-

Bacon, 2018). Our paper is also related to the traditional literature analyzing non-separable panel and treat-

ment effects models e.g. Heckman et al., 1998, 1997; Blundell et al., 2004; Abadie, 2005; Chernozhukov et

al., 2013.

      The first main contribution of our paper is to interpret estimates from two-way fixed effects specifications

when researchers include “dynamic” indicators for time relative to treatment and when treatment effects are

heterogeneous across adoption cohorts. We derive our results for a general class of two-way fixed effects

specifications where “dynamic” indicators can be flexibly specified as single relative periods ` or sets of

relative periods g (thus also capturing any “static” specification where all post-treatment indicators are

collected in a single set). This class of specifications encompasses all specifications addressed by Athey

and Imbens (2018), Borusyak and Jaravel (2017), Callaway and Sant’Anna (2020a), de Chaisemartin and

D’Haultfœuille (2020) and Goodman-Bacon (2018).

      As a building block for the causal interpretation of estimates, we define C ATTe,` , the cohort average

treatment effects on the treated as the cohort-specific average difference in outcomes relative to never being

treated. Our choice of a “building block” is governed by the counterfactual and the type of heterogeneity

of interest. This object coincides with the “group-time average treatment effect” studied by Callaway and

Sant’Anna (2020a) and is more granular than the building block used by Goodman-Bacon (2018) that is an

average of C ATTe,` over some relative period range. Athey and Imbens (2018) consider an alternate coun-

terfactual to never being treated: being treated at a different time. Borusyak and Jaravel (2017) implicitly

assume away heterogeneity across cohorts within a relative period, so their building block reduces to ATT` .

de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020) allow for heterogeneous treatment paths within a cohort over

time across “groups”, thus their building block is at the group level. We defer a discussion of assumptions

underlying the causal interpretation of these building blocks to Section 2.

      The second main contribution of our paper is to propose a simple regression-based alternative estimation

strategy that produces a more sensible estimand than conventional two-way fixed effects models under het-

erogeneous treatment effects. Our procedure is most similar to Callaway and Sant’Anna (2020a), but has the



                                                         4
