                                                                                                 ν` by taking
at least l periods relative to hospitalization by its sample analog. Third, we form IW estimates b

                     δe,` (returned from step one) with sample cohort share (returned from step two) as
weighted averages of b

weights.

                                           µ` and the IW estimates b
    In Table 3, we report the FE estimates b                       ν` , as well as the underlying C ATTe,`

          δe,` . In this application, the FE estimates and IW estimates happen to be very similar in their
estimates b

magnitude. The conclusion from Dobkin et al. (2018) based on FE estimates similar to ours still holds: we

find a substantial and persistent decline in the earnings due to hospitalization, and the increase in out-of-

pocket spending is transitory and small in comparison.

    However, the FE estimates still suffer from non-convex and non-zero weighting as we show in Section

5.3, which can lead to interpretability issues depending on the amount of treatment effect heterogeneity.

                              µ0 falls in the convex hull of its underlying C ATTe,0 estimates, b
Even though for both outcomes b                                                                 µ−2 turns

out to be outside the convex hull of its underlying C ATTe,−2 estimates. In contrast, by construction, the IW

          ν` fall within the convex hull of its underlying C ATTe,` estimates and are unaffected by C ATTe,`0
estimates b

estimates from other periods ` 0 , `. Thus, they have an interpretation as an average effect of the treatment

on the treated ` periods after initial treatment.



6    Conclusions

This paper analyzes the behavior of relative period coefficients µ` on the indicator for being ` periods away

from the treatment from two-way fixed effects regressions in settings with variation in treatment timing

and treatment effects heterogeneity. For dynamic treatment effects, researchers are usually interested in

estimating some average of treatment effects from ` periods relative to the treatment, and it is common

                                   µ` assuming that interpretation is valid. However, we show that in the
to report the coefficient estimate b

presence of heterogenous treatment effects, the coefficient µ` does not necessarily capture the dynamic

treatment effect as it can fall outside the convex hull of C ATTe,` from its corresponding period ` and may

pick up spurious terms consisting of treatment effects from periods other than `. This negative result is based

on the decomposition of the coefficients µ` as a linear combination of cohort-specific average treatment

effects on the treated C ATTe,` . The weights in the linear combination can be non-convex, and non-zero on

relative periods ` 0 , `.

    Given these negative results on two-way fixed effects regression estimators, we propose “interaction-


                                                      29
