time indicators included in (1). Examining the weights allows researchers to gauge how large the amount

of treatment effects heterogeneity needs to be for µ` to be contaminated by treatment effects from other

relative periods. Our publicly-available Stata package eventstudyweights automates the estimation of these

weights using the panel dataset underlying any given specification of (1).

    The second goal of this paper is to propose an alternative regression-based method that is more ro-

bust to treatment effects heterogeneity than regression (1). For dynamic treatment effects, researchers are

usually interested in estimating some average of treatment effects from ` periods relative to the treatment.

Our alternative method estimates the shares of cohort as weights. These weights are more interpretable

than the weights underlying regression (1) in the presence of treatment effects heterogeneity, and the re-

sulting weighted average of treatment effects extends beyond a convex combination of treatment effects

(Słoczyński, forthcoming). As discussed in Section 4.2, using the procedures of Callaway and Sant’Anna

(2020a), our alternative method can also accommodate covariates.

    We illustrate both our decomposition results and our alternative method via an empirical application,

estimating the dynamic effects of a hospitalization. We follow Dobkin et al. (2018) in using the publicly-

available dataset, Health and Retirement Study (HRS), to first estimate two-way fixed effects regressions.

We then illustrate our alternative estimation method with this example. Among the outcomes studied by

Dobkin et al. (2018), we focus on out-of-pocket medical spending and labor earnings. Our alternative

method yields similar big-picture findings as the original paper that uses two-way fixed effects regressions:

the earnings decline due to hospitalization is substantial compared to the transitory out-of-pocket spending

increase. However, the two-way fixed effects estimates sometimes fall outside the convex hull of the un-

derlying effects. In contrast, estimates using our alternative method, by construction, are guaranteed to be

easy-to-interpret because they are weighted averages of the underlying effects, with weights corresponding

to cohort shares.

    The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In the next subsection, we review the theoretical literature.

Section 2 formally introduces the event study design and discusses our definition in relation to the applied

literature. Section 3 derives the estimands of two-way fixed effects regression, and introduces sufficient

assumptions for them to be causally interpretable. Section 4 develops our alternative estimator. Section 5

illustrates our results using an empirical example and Section 6 concludes. All proofs are contained in the

Online Appendix.



                                                       3
