treatment is

                                     C ATTe,` = E[Yi,e+` −Yi,e+`
                                                            ∞
                                                                 | Ei = e].                                 (3)

      Each C ATTe,` represents the average treatment effect ` periods from the initial treatment for the cohort

of units first treated at time e. We shift from calendar time index t to relative period index ` which denotes

the periods since treatment; for cohort e, ` ranges from −e to T − e because we observe at most e periods

before the initial treatment and T − e periods after the initial treatment. Relative periods allow us to compare

cohorts while holding their exposure to the treatment constant.


2.2     Identifying assumptions

With the above definitions, we formalize three potential identifying assumptions for outcomes of interest in

our event study design. The first assumption is a generalized form of a parallel trends assumption. The sec-

ond assumption requires no anticipation of the treatment. The third assumption imposes no variation across

cohorts. For each assumption, we first discuss its meaning and then compare it with similar assumptions

made in the literature interpreting two-way fixed effects regressions. Later in Section 3 we interpret the

relative period coefficients µ` from two-way fixed effects regressions under different combinations of these

assumptions.

                                                                             ∞ −Y ∞ |E = e] is the same for
Assumption 1. (Parallel trends in baseline outcomes.) For all s , t, the E[Yi,t  i,s i

all e ∈ supp(Ei ).

      If an application includes never-treated units so that ∞ ∈ supp(Ei ), we need to especially consider

whether these never-treated units satisfy the parallel trends assumption. Never-treated units are likely to

differ from ever-treated units in many ways, and may not share the same evolution of baseline outcomes. If

the never-treated units are unlikely to satisfy the parallel trends assumption, then we should exclude them

from the estimation to avoid violation of this assumption.

      While common in the applied literature, the parallel trends assumption is strong and oftentimes violated.

For example, Ashenfelter (1978) documented that participants in job training programs experience a decline

in earnings prior to the training period (Ashenfelter’s dip). The timing of job training is dependent on the

evolution of individual’s baseline earnings, and this scenario therefore does not satisfy the parallel trends

assumption. Proposition 1 is the only result in this paper derived without this assumption, but there is an



                                                       7
