AI adoption, productivity and employment:
      Evidence from European firms

         Iñaki Aldasoro            Leonardo Gambacorta                  Rozalia Pal
                 BIS                        BIS & CEPR                         EIB

         Debora Revoltella              Christoph Weiss              Marcin Wolski
                   EIB                           EIB                         EIB


                                     December 8, 2025


                                            Abstract


      This paper provides new evidence on how the adoption of artificial intelligence (AI)
      affects productivity and employment in Europe. Using matched EIBIS-ORBIS data
      on more than 12,000 non-financial firms in the European Union (EU) and United
      States (US), we instrument the adoption of AI by EU firms by assigning the adop-
      tion rates of US peers to isolate exogenous technological exposure. Our results
      show that AI adoption increases the level of labor productivity by 4%. Productiv-
      ity gains are due to capital deepening, as we find no adverse effects on firm-level
      employment. This suggests that AI increases worker output rather than replac-
      ing labor in the short run, though longer-term effects remain uncertain. However,
      productivity benefits of AI adoption are unevenly distributed and concentrate in
      medium and large firms. Moreover, AI-adopting firms are more innovative and their
      workers earn higher wages. Our analysis also highlights the critical role of comple-
      mentary investments in software and data or workforce training to fully unlock the
      productivity gains of AI adoption.



JEL Codes: D22, J24, L25, O33, O47
Keywords: Artificial intelligence, firm productivity, Europe, digital transformation.




    We thank Jon Frost, Matteo Gatti and seminar participants at the European Investment Bank for
helpful comments and suggestions. The views expressed in this paper are those of the authors and do
not reflect those of the Bank for International Settlements or the European Investment Bank.
