estimates if not properly addressed.

    To mitigate endogeneity concerns, we develop an identification strategy inspired by
Rajan and Zingales (1998). Their seminal insight is that characteristics measured in a
benchmark economy can serve as an exogenous source of variation when applied to other
countries. Whereas Rajan and Zingales (1998) assign US sectoral rankings of financial
dependence to all countries, we extend this logic using a more granular, firm-level design.
Specifically, we construct an external proxy for AI exposure by matching each EU firm
to a set of comparable US firms – similar in sector, size class, investment intensity, in-
novation activity, financing structure and management practices – and transferring the
US firms’ AI adoption scores to the EU firm. Because US firms operate in a technolog-
ical and institutional environment that is arguably exogenous to the EU, the matched
US adoption measure captures the component of AI exposure that is unrelated to EU-
specific policies, economic conditions or unobserved firm characteristics. This firm-level
matching approach, which exploits cross-continental variation while tightly conditioning
on underlying fundamentals, refines earlier sector-level strategies, such as the use of US
sectoral AI adoption rates as in Gambacorta et al. (2025).

    The matching between EU and US firms is implemented using a stratified propen-
sity score matching (PSM) approach, which ensures comparability across firms based on
observable characteristics. Building on the firm characteristics reported in Section 3.1,
our strategy is the following. We stratify firms by two main categorical dimensions that
seem to be crucial for AI adoption: sector and size class. Within each stratum, we match
firms on variables for which the observed difference is the highest between AI and non-AI
firms, as reported in Table 1. The chosen four key covariates are: (i) investment intensity
per employee (in log), (ii) a binary indicator for whether a company issued bonds or
equity, (iii) a binary indicator for innovation activity, and (iv) a binary indicator for the
use of a strategic business monitoring system. The variables are not only motivated by
our initial investigation of the main drivers of AI adoption in the previous Section but
are also closely linked to the literature on firm productivity and technology adoption,
highlights the importance of financial capacity, innovation orientation and managerial
quality as determinants of both AI adoption and productivity outcomes (Bloom, Sadun,
and Van Reenen, 2016; Hall, 2010).4

   4
     We confirm that the selected variables have high predictive power over AI adoption decisions in
the EU and US, using a stylized linear regression model. The results are presented in Table B.1 in the
Appendix.



                                                 12
