trast, when instrumenting AI adoption using our PSM strategy and controlling for firm
characteristics, we find no significant effect on employment (column (4)).

    Taking the results from Tables 2 and 3 together begs the question whether the increase
in labor productivity translates into benefits for workers. Table 4 addresses this issue by
replicating our main regression with controls and all fixed effects, but using either the
total wage bill or the average wage per employee, both at the firm level. The results
show that AI-adopting firms display higher wages (overall and per employee) than non-
adopting firms, after controlling for age, size and country-sector-wave fixed effects. The
results suggest that productivity gains have so far benefited employees. It remains to be
seen whether the patterns will hold in the medium to long term.

    Our empirical analysis yields three key insights regarding AI adoption by non-financial
firms in Europe. First, the instrumental variable estimates confirm a positive causal effect
of AI adoption on labor productivity. AI adoption raises productivity by 4%, an effect
that remains statistically significant even after controlling for firm-specific characteristics
such as investment intensity, profitability, leverage and size.10

    While direct comparisons with the macroeconomic literature are not straightforward
– given that our results focus on labor productivity and reflect a one-off effect, whereas
macro studies typically estimate long-run impacts on total factor productivity (TFP) –
our findings appear more consistent with mid-range projections (e.g., Bergeaud (2024)’s
0.3 percentage points annual TFP gains or Aghion and Bunel (2024)’s 0.7 percentage
points). The magnitude suggests that AI acts as a complementary input that enhances
efficiency, though its aggregate impact is moderated by implementation frictions and
skill gaps, contrasting with more optimistic projections of transformative productivity
booms (e.g., Baily, Brynjolfsson, and Korinek (2023)’s 1.7 percentage points scenario).
The increase in the coefficient from 2.8% (before matching) to 4.1% (after matching)
indicates that endogenous adoption – whereby not all productive firms self-select into AI
– understates perceived benefits. After isolating exogenous variation by benchmarking
with the US adoption rates, the net effect remains positive, significant and economically
plausible, reflecting incremental gains from task automation and cognitive augmentation.



  10
     In the baseline specification, labor productivity is expressed as turnover per employee. However,
the effect remains significant at 3.4% when use instead value added per employee (see Table B.3 in the
Appendix).



                                                 18
