ness? A. Not used in the business. B. Used in parts of the business. C. Entire business
is organized around this technology.” We define AI adopters as firms that use big data
analytics and AI in parts of the business or if the entire business is organized around AI.

    EIBIS provides a comprehensive dataset that captures a wide spectrum of firm-level
characteristics and investment-related information across surveyed firms. It includes
quantitative data – such as annual turnover, number of employees, value of fixed assets,
total wages, investment in different categories of tangible and intangible assets – as well
as demographic data, for instance on firm age and sector, offering a deep understanding
of the structural profile of businesses. Beyond these metrics, EIBIS also gathers qual-
itative insights through survey responses, shedding light on firms’ internal perceptions
and strategic outlooks. This includes assessments of managerial competencies, financing
strategies, perceived barriers to invest and investment focus.

    To enrich and validate the self-reported survey data, EIBIS is complemented by ad-
ministrative financial information sourced from Moody’s ORBIS database. This integra-
tion allows for a more robust analysis by incorporating detailed financial statements on
balance sheets and profit and loss accounts. The combination of subjective perceptions
and objective financial data enables a better understanding of investment dynamics and
firm performance in different sectors, countries and market segments.


3.1    Descriptive statistics and stylized facts

AI innovation in Europe continues to lag behind the United States. In particular, the EU
trails the US in the number of AI-related patents, with the gap widening further after
the pandemic (EIB, 2025). While the absolute number of AI patents is higher in the US
than in the EU (Figure 1a), the higher share of AI patents relative to total patents also
underscores the stronger specialization in AI innovation in the US (Figure 1b).




                                            6
