    The use of stratified PSM helps us to address selection bias by ensuring that matched
firms are similar in terms of observable characteristics that jointly influence both AI
adoption and productivity. Moreover, by using US firms as a benchmark, we exploit
variation in AI adoption that is plausibly exogenous to EU-specific institutional or policy
environments. This strategy enhances the credibility of our identification and allows us to
interpret the estimated effects as causal under the assumption of conditional independence
(Rosenbaum and Rubin, 1983; Dehejia and Wahba, 2002).5

                  Figure 6: Balancing properties before and after matching




Note: The bars present the standardized percentage biases before and after matching for the selected
variables, with the numbers highlighting the absolute bias reduction after matching (positive values mean
that EU firms score higher). For each EU firm, the matched sample includes the five nearest-neighbour
US firms based on propensity scores calculated using the specified matching variables. Source: EIBIS
2019-2024.



    Overall, our matching procedure is effective, as evidenced by the substantial reduction
in covariate imbalances between EU and US firms. Prior to matching, US firms exhibit
a significantly higher investment intensity – by approximately 8.2 percent – compared
to their EU counterparts. After matching, this difference narrows to just 0.8 percent,
representing a 90% reduction in the initial gap (Figure 6). Similar improvements are
observed across all other matching variables, indicating that the matched US firms closely

   5
     We use the k-nearest neighbour approach to find the best possible match between US and EU
firms. We choose k = 5 to balance the trade-off between having enough variation for a reasonable match
while reducing potential overlap across matches. Lower values of k risk putting too much weight on any
given US company. In turn, since our sample of US firms is considerably smaller than that of EU firms,
expanding the set of nearest neighbours used for matching risks a high degree of overlap in the matching
for any given pair of EU firms. Nonetheless, our main results remain robust to matching procedures with
k = 3 and k = 7.



                                                   13
