country (Brutscher et al., 2020), while its detailed questions identify AI adoption based on
whether firms use big data analytics and AI technologies in their operations. Crucially,
EIBIS also captures granular firm characteristics on investment behavior, investment
finance and innovation activity, enabling a rigorous analysis of both the drivers and
consequences of AI adoption.

     Three stylized facts emerge from the data, informing our approach for causal iden-
tification of the effects of AI. First, adoption is highly stratified: 45% of large firms
(more than 250 employees) deploy AI, compared to only 24% of small firms (10 to 49
employees).1 This echoes technology diffusion theories (Comin and Hobijn, 2010). Sec-
ond, emerging EU economies (e.g., Romania, 22%) exhibit adoption rates substantially
below more financially developed EU countries (e.g., Sweden, 52%) and the US (34%).
Third, AI-adopting firms are more innovative in general, invest more intensively, and face
tighter skilled-labor constraints – suggesting endogenous adoption patterns that require
robust identification.

    To establish causality, we develop a novel instrumental variable (IV) strategy inspired
by the work on financial dependence and growth following Rajan and Zingales (1998). We
match each EU firm with comparable US firms (same sector and size) that exhibit similar
levels of innovation intensity, investment, managerial practices and external finance. We
then assign the US firms’ AI adoption rate as an exogenous proxy for EU firms’ adoption
rate. This approach leverages cross-continental variation in AI exposure, while holding
firm characteristics constant, effectively isolating the effects of AI adoption. Propensity-
score balancing tests confirm the validity of the identification strategy, with matched US
and EU firms exhibiting near-identical distributions across key firm characteristics.

    Our results show a robust causal link between AI adoption and productivity. Con-
trolling for a wide set of country, sector and year fixed effects and observable financial
variables, we find that firms adopting AI have 4% higher labor productivity. This effect
is economically significant and aligns with mid-range macroeconomic projections recently
reported in the literature (Acemoglu, 2024; Bergeaud, 2024), rather than with optimistic
“productivity boom” scenarios (Baily, Brynjolfsson, and Korinek, 2023). Crucially, the
gains reflect capital deepening: AI augments worker output without reducing employ-
ment, consistent with micro-level evidence of AI-aided efficiency gains in cognitive tasks
(Noy and Zhang, 2023; Gambacorta et al., 2024). Moreover, we find that workers in

   1
       The shares are calculated using value added (VA) weights.



                                                    2
