predictions, showing larger productivity gains in medium and large firms compared to
micro and small enterprises.

   Our contribution bridges these strands by: (i) providing the first causal evidence on
the effects of AI adoption on firm productivity and employment effects in Europe, address-
ing gaps noted by Aldasoro et al. 2024, (ii) developing a novel IV strategy that extends
Rajan and Zingales (1998)’s financial dependence approach to technology diffusion, (iii)
presenting evidence of capital-deepening, rather than labor-replacing, effects that can
contribute to refining Aghion and Bunel (2024)’s growth theories, and (iv) discussing
which investment strategies enable the productivity dividends of AI.



3       Data

We use data from the European Investment Bank Investment Survey (EIBIS), an annual
survey initiated in 2016 encompassing approximately 12,000 non-financial corporations
across the EU. This survey employs a stratified random sampling method, targeting
firms in all 27 EU countries.2 Since 2019, EIBIS also covers a sample of 800 firms in the
US, allowing for a comparison of investment dynamics between the EU and the US. The
respondents to the interviews are senior managers or financial directors with responsibility
for investment decisions and how investments are financed – for example, the owner, chief
financial officer or chief executive officer. Brutscher et al. (2020) provide evidence that
EIBIS is representative of the business population in the EU, as described by Eurostat’s
Structural Business Statistics.

    Since 2019, firms participating in EIBIS are asked about the use of big data analytics
and AI. In the EIBIS questionnaire, big data analytics and AI are defined as technolo-
gies that intelligently automate tasks and provide insights that augment human decision
making, like machine learning, robotic process automation, natural language processing
(NLP), algorithms, neural networks. Firms are asked the following question: “To what
extent, if at all, are big data analytics and artificial intelligence used within your busi-

    2
     The EIBIS sample is stratified disproportionally by country, sector and firm size class, and propor-
tionally by region within each country. The firms have at least five employees, with both full-time and
part-time employees being counted as one employee, and employees working less than 12 hours per week
being excluded. An enterprise is defined as a company trading as its own legal entity. As such, branches
are excluded from the target population. However, the definition is broader than in a typical enterprise
survey because some company subsidiaries are their own legal entities.



                                                   5
