predicted values of AI adoption, which must be reflected in the standard errors of the OLS
estimator. In our setting, AI adoption is constructed through a nonparametric matching
procedure, which complicates the derivation of a closed-form or plug-in correction for
standard errors. To address this issue of inference, for the main regressions with US-
matched adoption rates, we report bootstrap standard errors, which is a valid procedure
in this context. Specifically, we generate 500 bootstrap replications by resampling US
firms with replacement within each size and sector stratum, while keeping the EU sample
fixed. For each bootstrap replica, the matching is re-performed for every EU firm, and
the same OLS specification as presented in Equation (1) is re-estimated. Standard errors
are then computed from the bootstrap replications.9 In other specifications, we report
standard errors clustered at the country-sector-wave level.



5       Results

Table 2 presents our main results. The first two columns use labor productivity (LP)
as the dependent variable and the actual AI adoption rates of EU firms as the key
explanatory variable of interest, without and with controls respectively. The results from
column (1) suggest that, conditional on size, age and country-sector-wave fixed effects,
adoption by EU firms raises labor productivity by about 16%, a very large number even
when considering it is a one-off increase estimated from a pooled cross-section of firms
over a period of five years. When controlling for time-varying firm-specific characteristics
such as investment, profitability, leverage and size, the effect of adoption is significantly
reduced in size but remains statistically significant. The estimates from column (2)
suggest that more profitable and larger firms tend to have higher labor productivity,
whereas more leveraged firms exhibit lower productivity.

    The third and fourth columns present our key results, when using predicted AI adop-
tion through the matching procedure using US firms described in Section 4. The estimates
in column (3) do not include firm controls and suggest that the effect of instrumented
AI adoption on labor productivity remains high, as in column (1). When controlling for
firm characteristics, the effect of AI adoption on firm-level labor productivity is reduced
but remains statistically significant. The estimate shows that AI adoption leads to an

    9
    Table 2 reports statistical significance based on the normal approximation, although the results
remain robust when using empirical p-values.



                                                15
