resemble EU firms in terms of observable characteristics.6

   We run pooled cross-section regressions to investigate the effects of AI adoption on
labor productivity and employment :

                     yit = β1 Adopterit + β2 Xit−1 + νage + ϕsize + µcst + ϵit ,                        (1)

where i denotes the firm and t the year. The dependent variable yit is either labor
productivity or employment at the firm level. The explanatory variable Adopterit takes
value 1 for AI-adopting firms and 0 otherwise (either the actual series or the AI adoption
instrumented after matching with US firms, as discussed above)7 and Xit−1 is a vector of
controls which includes investment, profitability, financial leverage and the logarithm of
total assets (all lagged by one period to moderate simultaneity effects). We add a full set
of fixed effects, including (i) size groups ϕsize ∈ {micro, small, medium, large} to control
for the possibility that AI adoption differs for different size categories, (ii) age groups
νage ∈ {< 5y, 5 − 10y, 10 − 20y, > 20y} to account for potentially confounding variation
that may be a function of firm age, and (iii) country-sector-wave fixed effects to absorb
possible idiosyncratic shocks in AI adoption rates across firms in the same country-sector-
time group. We control for the three sets of fixed effects in all specifications.8

    To investigate potential heterogeneity in the effects of AI adoption on labor productiv-
ity, we augment Equation (1) by introducing interaction terms between AI adoption and
two key dimensions: (i) firm size group and (ii) the share of investment allocated to dif-
ferent categories of tangible and intangible assets. For the latter, we use EIBIS reported
data on investment in the last financial year (divided by total assets) attributed to any
of the six categories: (i) land and buildings, (ii) machinery and equipment, (iii) research
and development, (iv) data, software and IT, (v) training and (vi) business processes and
organization.

    When estimating regressions, it is important to account for the fact that we use

   6
       The effectiveness of the matching procedure is further supported by the strong explanatory power
of matching covariates in accounting for differences in AI adoption rates between US-matched and non-
matched firms, as documented in the Appendix.
     7
       Since the matching algorithm uses k-nearest neighbors, a US-matched value is set to 1 if the majority
of the nearest neighbors are AI adopters, and 0 otherwise.
     8
       Even in the presence of an exogenous instrument, there may still be unobserved global shocks or
sectoral trends affecting both US and EU firms. We account for this by running the baseline model with
different set of fixed effects in Table B.2 in the Appendix. In particular, we separate country-wave from
sector-wave fixed effects.



                                                    14
