is equal to 0.0003.18 σbf e = 7 × 10−4 , meaning that βf e may be of a different sign than the ATEs
of all the treated (g, t) cells if the standard deviation of those ATEs is equal to 0.0007. We also
estimate the weights attached to βbf d . 5,472 are strictly positive, and 4,605 are strictly negative.
The negative weights sum to -1.43. σ     bf d = 4 × 10−4 , and σ
                                                               bf d = 6 × 10−4 .
Therefore, βf e and βf d can only receive a causal interpretation if the weights attached to them
are uncorrelated with the intensity of the treatment effect in each county×election-year cell
(Assumptions 7 and 8, respectively). This is not warranted. First, as βbf e and βbf d significantly
differ, Assumptions 7 and 8 cannot jointly hold. Moreover, the weights attached to βbf e and
βbf d are correlated with variables that are likely to be themselves associated with the intensity
of the treatment effect in each cell. For instance, the correlation between the weights attached
to βbf d and t, the year variable, is equal to −0.06 (t-stat=-3.28). The effect of newspapers
may be different in the last than in the first years of the panel. For instance, new means of
communication, like the radio, appear in the end of the period under consideration, and may
diminish the effect of newspapers.19 This would lead to a violation of Assumption 8.
The stable groups assumption holds: between each pair of consecutive elections, there are coun-
ties where the number of newspapers does not change. We use the fuzzydid Stata package,
downloadable with its help file from the SSC repository, to estimate a modified version of our
DIDM estimator, that accounts for the fact that the number of newspapers is not binary (see
section ?? of our Web Appendix, where we define this modified estimator). We include state-
year fixed effects as controls in our estimation. We find that DIDM = 0.0043, with a standard
error of 0.0015. DIDM is 66% larger than βbf d , and the two estimators are significantly different
at the 10% level (t-stat=1.69). DIDM is also of a different sign than βbf e .
Our DIDM estimator only relies on a common trends assumption. To assess its plausibility, we
compute DIDpl  M , the placebo estimator introduced in Section 4.
                                                                    20
                                                                       As shown in Table 3 below,
our placebo estimator is small and not significantly different from 0, meaning that counties
where the number of newspapers increased or decreased between t − 1 and t did not experience
significantly different trends in turnout from t − 2 to t − 1 than counties where that number was
stable. Our placebo estimator is estimated on a subset of the data: for each pair of consecutive
time periods t − 1 and t, we only keep counties where the number of newspapers did not change
between t − 2 and t − 1. Still, almost 80% of the county × election-year observations are used in
the computation of the placebo estimator. Moreover, when reestimated on this subsample, the
DIDM estimator is very close to the DIDM estimator in the full sample.
  18
     The number of newspapers is not binary, so strictly speaking, in this application the parameter of interest is
the average causal response parameter introduced in Section ?? of our Web Appendix, rather than the ATT.
  19
     In fact, Gentzkow et al. (2011) analyze the 1868 to 1928 period separately from later periods, because the
growth of the radio may have changed newspapers’ effects.
  20
     Again, we need to slightly modify DIDpl
                                          M to account for the fact that the number of newspapers is not binary.




                                                        22
