    Equation (1), the dependent variable is, say, the change in log land value in county c
    between period t and 1930, and the explanatory variables are state × year fixed effects, the
    share of county c in high erosion regions, the share of county c in medium erosion regions,
    and some control variables. This regression is similar to Regression 1 with controls, except
    that it has two treatment variables. The stable groups assumption is satisfied: many
    counties have 0% of their land situated in medium or high erosion regions. This a fuzzy
    design: the treatments of interest are whether a piece of land is in high or in medium
    erosion regions, which varies within (county,year) cells.

27. Bajari et al. (2012), A Rational Expectations Approach to Hedonic Price Re-
    gressions with Time-Varying Unobserved Product Attributes: The Price of
    Pollution. Table 5.
    In, say, the first regression equation in the bottom of page 1915, the dependent variable
    is the change in the price of house j between sales 2 and 3, and the explanatory variables
    are the change in various pollutants in the area around house j between sales 2 and 3,
    and some controls. This regression is similar to Regression 2 with controls, except that it
    has several treatment variables. The stable groups assumption is presumably satisfied: it
    is likely that for each pair of consecutive sales, there are houses where the level of each
    pollutant does not change. This is a sharp design.

28. Dahl and Lochner (2012), The Impact of Family Income on Child Achievement:
    Evidence from the Earned Income Tax Credit. Table 3.
    In regression Equation (4), the dependent variable is the change in test scores for child
    i between years a and a-1, while the explanatory variables are the change in the EITC
    income of her family and some controls, and the change in the expected EITC income
    of her family based on her family income in year a-1 is used to instrument for the actual
    change of her family’s EITC income. This regression is a 2SLS version of Regression 2 with
    controls, except that it does not have years fixed effects. The stable groups assumption is
    presumably satisfied: it is likely that for each pair of consecutive years, there are children
    whose family’s expected EITC income does not change. This is a sharp design.

29. Imberman et al. (2012), Katrina’s Children: Evidence on the Structure of Peer
    Effects from Hurricane Evacuees. Tables 3-6.
    In regression Equation (1), the dependent variable is the test score of student i in school
    j in grade g and year t, and the explanatory variables are school and grade × year fixed
    effects, the fraction of Katrina evacuee students received by school j in grade g and year t,
    and some controls. This regression is a three-way fixed effects version of Regression 1. The
    stable groups assumption is satisfied: there are schools that did not receive any Katrina
    evacuee. This a fuzzy design: the treatment of interest is the proportion of evacuees in


                                              20
