with probability tending to one as G → ∞. The last condition in Assumption S10 simply states
that asymptotically, the proportion of switchers is strictly postive.
The following result shows that under these conditions, DIDM is asymptotically normal, and
that CI1−α (δ S ) is asymptotically conservative.

Theorem S6 Suppose that Assumptions 1-5, 9-10 and S9-S10 hold. Then, as G → ∞,
                                 √             d
                                  G DIDM − δ S −→ N (0, σ 2 ),

with σ 2 defined in (38) below. Moreover,
                                                            
                               lim sup Pr δ S ∈ CI1−α (δ S ) ≥ 1 − α.
                                G→∞


Theorem S6 shows that DIDM is an asymptotically normal estimator of δ S when the number of
groups tends to infinity, provided the outcomes and treatments are independent across groups.
As is usually the case for estimators constructed using independent but not identically distributed
random variables (see e.g. Liu and Singh, 1995), the asymptotic variance of DIDM can only be
conservatively estimated. As a result, the confidence interval we propose is asymptotically
conservative.


6    Detailed literature review

We now review the 33 papers that use two-way fixed effects or closely related regressions that
we found in our literature review. For each paper, we use the following presentation:
Authors (year), Title. Where the two-way fixed effects estimator is used in the paper.
Description of the two-way fixed effects estimator used in the paper, and how it relates to
Regression 1 or 2. Assessment of whether the stable groups assumption holds in this paper.
Assessment of whether the research design is sharp or fuzzy.

    1. Chandra et al. (2010), Patient Cost-Sharing and Hospitalization Offsets in the
       Elderly. First line of Tables 2 and 3.
       In the regressions in the first line of Tables 2 and 3, the outcomes (e.g. a measure of
       utilization for plan p in month t) are regressed on plan fixed effects, month fixed effects,
       and an indicator of whether plan p had increased copayments in month t (see regression
       equation at the bottom of page 198). This regression corresponds to Regression 1. The
       period analyzed runs from January 2000 to September 2003. The stable groups assumption
       is satisfied until January 2002, when the HMO plans also become treated. This is a sharp
       design.


                                                13
