the standard deviation of the weights is equal to the minimal value of the standard deviation
of the ATEs across the treated (g, t) cells under which the average treatment on the treated
(ATT) may actually have the opposite sign than that coefficient. One can estimate that ratio
to assess the robustness of the two-way FE coefficient. If that ratio is close to 0, that coefficient
and the ATT can be of opposite signs even under a small and plausible amount of treatment
effect heterogeneity. In that case, treatment effect heterogeneity would be a serious concern for
the validity of that coefficient. On the contrary, if that ratio is very large, that coefficient and
the ATT can only be of opposite signs under a very large and implausible amount of treatment
effect heterogeneity.
Finally, we propose a new estimator, DIDM , that is valid even if the treatment effect is hetero-
geneous over time or across groups. It estimates the average treatment effect across all the (g, t)
cells whose treatment changes from t − 1 to t. It relies on common trends assumptions on both
potential outcomes. Those conditions are partly testable, and we propose a test that amounts
to looking at pre-trends. This test differs from the standard event study pre-trends test (see
Autor, 2003), which has been shown to be invalid when treatment effects are heterogeneous (see
Abraham and Sun, 2018). We show that our estimator is asymptotically normal. We compute
it in the data sets of Gentzkow et al. (2011) and Vella and Verbeek (1998), and in both cases
we find that it is significantly different from βbf e .2 Our estimator can be used in applications
where, for each pair of consecutive dates, there are groups whose treatment does not change.
We estimate that this condition is satisfied for around 80% of the papers using two-way fixed
effects regressions found in our survey of the AER.
Overall, our paper has implications for applied researchers estimating two-way fixed effects
regressions. First, we recommend that they compute the weights attached to their regression
and the ratio of |βbf e | divided by the standard deviation of the weights. To do so, they can use the
twowayfeweights Stata package that is available from the SSC repository. If many weights are
negative, and if the ratio is not very large, we recommend that they compute our new estimator,
using the fuzzydid and did_multiplegt Stata packages, also available from the SSC repository
(see de Chaisemartin et al., 2019, for explanations on how to use the former package).
We extend our results in several important directions. First, another commonly-used regression
is the first-difference regression of Yg,t − Yg,t−1 , the change in the mean outcome in group g, on
period fixed effects and on Dg,t − Dg,t−1 , the change in the treatment. We let βf d denote the
expectation of the coefficient of Dg,t − Dg,t−1 . We show that under common trends, βf d also
identifies a weighted sum of treatment effects, with potentially some negative weights. Second,
in our Web Appendix we show that our results extend to fuzzy designs, where the treatment
varies within (g, t) cells, and to two-way fixed effects regressions with a non-binary treatment
and with covariates.
  2
      In both cases, our estimator is also significantly different from βbf d .


                                                             3
