When there is no group such that Dg,t = 1, Dg,t−1 = Dg,t−2 = 0 or no group such that Dg,t =
Dg,t−1 = Dg,t−2 = 0, we let DIDpl                                               pl
                               +,t = 0, and we adopt the same convention for DID−,t = 0. Let

                                          T
                                                                                 !
                                          X     N1,0,0,t          N
                                DIDpl                    DIDpl             DIDpl
                                                                   0,1,1,t
                                   M =             pl       +,t +    pl       −,t .
                                          t=3    NS                NS

                                                                   h      i
                                                                       pl
Theorem 4 If Assumptions 1, 2, 4, 5, 9, 10, 12, and 13 hold, then E DIDM = 0.

DIDpl+,t compares the evolution of the mean outcome from t − 2 to t − 1 in two sets of groups:
those untreated at t − 2 and t − 1 buth treatedi at t, and those untreated at t − 2, t − 1, and t.
If Assumptions 4 and 5 hold, then E DIDpl   +,t = 0. Similarly, if Assumptions 9 and 10 hold,
   h        i             h        i
E DIDpl                         pl
         −,t = 0. Then, E DIDM = 0 is a testable implication of Assumptions 4, 5, 9, and 10,

so finding DIDpl
               M significantly different from 0 would imply that those assumptions are violated:
groups that switch treatment experience different trends before that switch than the groups used
to reconstruct their counterfactual trends when they switch.15 Note that DIDpl  M compares the
trends of switching and stable groups one period before the switch. One can define other placebo
estimators comparing those trends, say, two or three periods before the switch. DIDpl  M and all
those other placebo estimators are computed by the did_multiplegt Stata package.


5         Extensions

In this section, we briefly review some of the extensions in our Web Appendix. First, we show
that the decomposition of βf e in Theorem 1 can be extended to fuzzy designs where the treatment
varies within (g, t) cells, to applications with a non binary treatment, and to two-way fixed effects
regressions with control variables.16 In fuzzy designs or with a non-binary treatment, the weights
in Theorem 1 remain essentially unchanged.
We also consider two-way fixed effects regressions with covariates. Specifically, we study the
coefficient of Dg,t in a regression of Yi,g,t on group and period fixed effects, Dg,t , and a vector of
covariates Xg,t . We show that a result very similar to Theorem 1 applies to that coefficient, up
to two differences. First, including covariates allows for different trends across groups, provided
those differential trends are fully accounted for by a linear model in Xg,t − Xg,t−1 , the change in
a group’s covariates. Specifically, instead of Assumptions 4 and 5, one needs to assume that

                     E (Yg,t (0)|Dg , Xg ) − E (Yg,t−1 (0)|Dg , Xg ) = (Xg,t − Xg,t−1 )0 γ + λt ,
    15
         See also Callaway and Sant’Anna (2018), who propose another placebo test in staggered adoption designs.
    16
         The decomposition of βf d in Theorem 2 can also be extended to all of those cases.



                                                         18
