This result is a special case of Proposition 1: in staggered adoption designs, D.,t is increasing in
t, so Proposition 1 implies that wg,t is decreasing in t.10 Proposition 1 also implies that in that
design, groups that adopt the treatment earlier are more likely to receive some negative weights.
Finally, in staggered adoption designs, Athey and Imbens (2018) derive a decomposition of βf e
that resembles to, but differs from, that in Theorem 1. They derive their decomposition under
the assumption that the dates at which each group starts receiving the treatment are randomly
assigned, while we derive ours under a common trends assumption.


3.2    Robustness to heterogeneous treatment effects

Theorem 1 shows that in sharp designs with many groups and periods, βbf e may be a misleading
measure of the treatment effect under the standard common trends assumption, if the treatment
effect is heterogeneous across groups and time periods. In the corollary below, we propose two
robustness measures that can be used to assess how serious that concern is.
Those robustness measures are defined conditional on D, the vector stacking together the treat-
                                                                                            e g,t = E (∆g,t |D)
ments of all the (g, t) cells. Specifically, for all (g, t) ∈ {1, ..., G}×{1, ..., T }, let ∆
                                                                                     
denote the ATE in cell (g, t) conditional               11     e TR
                                              on D, let ∆ = E ∆ D denote the ATT con-
                                                                            TR
                                     
ditional on D, and let βef e = E βbf e D . The first measure we consider is the minimal value
of the standard deviation of the ∆e g,t s under which one could have that βef e is of a different sign
than ∆e T R . Therefore, this summary measure applies to βef e and ∆ e T R , rather than βf e and δ T R ,
the unconditional expectations of βbf e and ∆T R on which we have focused so far. However, one
can show that when G, the number of groups, goes to infinity, βef e − βf e and ∆      e T R − δ T R both
converge to 0. So if the number of groups is large, βef e and ∆
                                                              e T R should not differ much from βf e
and δ T R , and our robustness measure “almost” applies to βf e and δ T R .
Let
                                                                              1/2
                                               X     Ng,t e              2
                                e =
                              σ(∆)                        ∆g,t − ∆e TR               ,
                                                     N1
                                       (g,t):Dg,t =1
                                                                    1/2
                                           X Ng,t
                              σ(w) =                    (wg,t − 1)2  .
                                                     N1
                                           (g,t):Dg,t =1

  10
    Borusyak and Jaravel (2017) assume that the treatment effect of cell (g, t) only depends on the number of
periods since group g has started receiving the treatment, whereas Proposition 1 does not rely on that assumption.
  11 e
     ∆g,t may differ from E(∆g,t ). To see this, let us consider a simple example where T = 2. Then, under
Assumption 3, one has ∆  e g,t = E (∆g,t |Dg,1 , Dg,2 ). One may for instance have E (∆g,1 |Dg,1 = 0, Dg,2 = 0) <
E (∆g,1 |Dg,1 = 1, Dg,2 = 1), if a group is more likely to be treated if her treatment effect is initially high.



                                                           10
