Theorem S4 Suppose that Assumptions 1-2 and S3-S4 hold. Then,
                                                       
                                      X Ng,t
                          βfXe = E             wX ∆g,t  .
                                            N1 g,t
                                                  (g,t):Dg,t =1




Theorem S4 shows that under a modified version of the common trends assumption accounting
for the covariates, βfXe identifies a weighted sum of the ∆Tg,tR s, as βf e in Theorem 1, with different
but still potentially negative weights.7 Assumption S4 may be more plausible than Assumption
5, but adding covariates may increase the prevalence of negative weights, or the correlation
between the weights and the ∆g,t s, thus making βfXe less robust to heterogeneous effects than
βf e .


3.4    2SLS regressions

Researchers have sometimes estimated 2SLS versions of Regressions 1 and 2. Our main con-
clusions also apply to those regressions. Let βbf2SLS
                                                    e    denote the coefficient of Di,g,t in a 2SLS
regression of Yg,t on group and period fixed effects and Di,g,t , using a variable Zg,t constant
within each group × period as the instrument for Di,g,t . Zg,t typically represents an incentive
for treatment allocated at the group × period level. For instance, Duflo (2001) studies the effect
of years of schooling on wages in Indonesia, using a primary school construction program as
an instrument. Specifically, she estimates a 2SLS regression of wages on cohort and district of
birth fixed effects and years of schooling, using the interaction of belonging to a cohort entering
primary school after the program was completed and the number of schools constructed in one’s
district of birth as the instrument for years of schooling.
Remark that βbf2SLS
                e    = βbfYe /βbfDe , where βbfYe (resp. βbfDe ) is the coefficient of Zg,t in the reduced-
form regression of Yg,t (resp. the first-stage regression of Dg,t ) on group and period fixed effects
and Zg,t . Then let βf2SLS
                        e      = E[βbfYe ]/E[βbfDe ].8 Following Imbens and Angrist (1994), for any
z ∈ Supp(Z) let Di,g,t (z) denote the potential treatment of unit i in (g, t) if Zi,g,t = z. It
follows from Theorem 1 that under a common trends assumption on Di,g,t (0), E[βbfDe ] is equal to
a weighted sum of the average effects of the instrument on the treatment in each group and time
period, with potentially many negative weights. Similarly, under a common trends assumption
   7
     In a previous version of this paper, we had shown that under a different, and arguably less natural, common
trends assumption, βfXe identifies a weighted sum of the ∆Tg,tR , with the same weights as in Theorem 1. We thank
an anonymous referee for pointing out issues with the common trends assumption we had previously proposed.
   8
     We do not consider here E[βbf2SLS
                                     e  ], as the 2SLS estimator may not have an expectation. Moreover, under
conditions similar to those imposed in Section 5 of the paper, βf2SLS  e    is the probability limit of βbf2SLS
                                                                                                            e   , which
makes βf e
         2SLS
               the proper estimand here.


                                                           9
