    distributional conflict is equal to 0. This is a sharp design.

22. Moser and Voena (2012), Compulsory Licensing: Evidence from the Trading
    with the Enemy Act. Table 2.
    In the regression equation in the beginning of Section III, the dependent variable is the
    number of patents by US inventors in patent class c at period t, and the explanatory
    variables are patent class and time fixed effects, the interaction of period t being after
    the trading with the enemy act and the number of licensed patents in class c, and some
    control variables. This regression corresponds to Regression 1 with some controls. The
    stable groups assumption is satisfied: there are patent classes where no patent was licensed.
    This is a sharp design.

23. Forman et al. (2012), The Internet and Local Wages: A Puzzle. Tables 2 and 4.
    In regression Equation (1), the dependent variable is the difference between log wages in
    2000 and 1995 in county i, and the explanatory variables are the proportion of businesses
    using Internet in county i in 2000, and control variables. This regression corresponds
    to Regression 2 with some controls. The stable groups assumption is satisfied: there are
    counties with no Internet investment in 2000. This a fuzzy design: the treatment of interest
    is whether a business uses Internet, which varies within (county,year) cells.

24. Besley and Mueller (2012), Estimating the Peace Dividend: The Impact of
    Violence on House Prices in Northern Ireland. Table 1, Columns 3 and 5-7.
    In regression Equation (1), the dependent variable is the price of houses in region r at time
    t, while the explanatory variables are region and time fixed effects, and the number of
    people killed because of the civil war in region r at time t-1. This regression corresponds
    to Regression 1. The stable groups assumption is presumably satisfied: between each pair
    of consecutive years, it is likely that there are some regions where the number of people
    killed because of the civil war does not change. This is a sharp design.

25. Dafny et al. (2012), Paying a Premium on Your Premium? Consolidation in
    the US Health Insurance Industry. Table 3.
    In regression Equation (3), the dependent variable is the the concentration of the hospital
    industry in market m and year t, and explanatory variables are time fixed effects, market
    fixed effects, and the change in concentration in market m induced by a merger interacted
    with an indicator for t being after the merger. This regression corresponds to Regression
    1. The stable groups assumption is satisfied: there are many markets where the merger
    did not change concentration. This is a sharp design.

26. Hornbeck (2012), The Enduring Impact of the American Dust Bowl: Short-
    and Long-Run Adjustments to Environmental Catastrophe. Table 2. In regression

                                               19
