because NTV does not exist yet. In 1999, 918 weights (47.4%) are strictly positive, while 1,020
(52.6%) are strictly negative. The negative weights sum to -2.26. σ bf e = 0.91: βf e and δ T R may
be of opposite signs if the standard deviation of the effect of NTV across subregions is above
0.91 percentage point. σbf e = 1.23: βf e may be of a different sign than the treatment effect in
every subregion if the standard deviation of the effect of NTV across subregions is above 1.23
percentage point, a plausible amount of treatment effect heterogeneity.
Therefore, βf e can only receive a causal interpretation if the effect of NTV is constant across
subregions, or if the weights attached to it are uncorrelated with the intensity of that effect
in each subregion (Assumption 7). These assumptions are not warranted. First, we estimate
βbf e again, weighting the regression by subregions’ populations. We obtain βbf e = 14.89, more
than twice its value in the unweighted regression, and the difference between the coefficients is
significant (t-stat=2.46). Therefore, we can reject the null that the treatment effect is constant:
if the treatment effect was constant across subregions, the weighting would not matter so both
the unweighted and the weighted regressions would estimate the same parameter. Second, the
weights attached to βbf e are correlated with variables that are likely to be themselves associated
with the intensity of the effect in each subregion. For instance, the correlation between the
weights and subregions’ populations is equal to 0.35 (t-stat=14.01). The effect of NTV may be
higher in less populated subregions, as those regions are more rural and fewer other sources of
information may be available there. This would lead to a violation of Assumption 7.


3     Extensions of the decomposition results

We consider hereafter several extensions of our decompositions of βf e and βf d in the paper. First,
we consider decompositions under the common trends assumption, and under the assumption
that the treatment effect is stable over time. Second, we extend our decompositions to ordered
treatments. Third, we investigate the effect of including covariates in the regression. Fourth,
we study two-way fixed effects 2SLS regressions. Throughout, we focus on sharp designs to ease
the exposition. Nevertheless, all the results generalize to fuzzy designs.


3.1   βf e and βf d as weighted sums of ATEs of switching groups

We first show that under an additional condition, βf e and βf d can be written as a weighted sum
of the ATEs of switching groups.

Assumption S2 (Stable treatment effect) For all g and t ≥ 2,

                            E (∆g,t |D) Dg,t−1 = E (∆g,t−1 |D) Dg,t−1 .


                                                 5
