   idence on the Impact of MERCOSUR on Argentinean Firms. Tables 3 to 12.
   In regression Equation (11), the dependent variable is the change in exporting status of
   firm i in sector j between 1992 and 1996, and the explanatory variables are the change
   in trade tariffs in Brasil for products in sector j over the same period, and some control
   variables. This regression corresponds to Regression 2, with some controls. The stable
   groups assumption is presumably satisfied: it seems likely that there are sectors where
   trade tariffs in Brasil did not change between 1992 and 1996. This is a sharp design.

7. Anderson and Sallee (2011), Using Loopholes to Reveal the Marginal Cost of
   Regulation: The Case of Fuel-Economy Standards. Table 5 Column 2.
   In the regression in Table 5 Column (2), the dependent variable is an indicator for whether
   a car sold is a flexible fuel vehicle, and the explanatory variables are state and month fixed
   effects, the percent of gas stations that have ethanol fuel in each month × state, and some
   controls. This regression corresponds to Regression 1. The stable groups assumption is
   presumably satisfied: it seems likely that between each pair of consecutive months, there
   are states where the percent ethanol availability does not change. This a fuzzy design: the
   treatment of interest is whether a car buyer has access to ethanol fuel, which varies within
   (month,state) cells.

8. Bagwell and Staiger (2011), What Do Trade Negotiators Negotiate About?
   Empirical Evidence from the World Trade Organization. Table 3, OLS columns.
   In regression equations (15a) and (15b), the dependent variable is the ad valorem tariff
   level bound by country c on product g, while the explanatory variables are country and
   product fixed effects, and two treatment variables which vary at the country × product
   level. These regressions are similar to Regression 1, except that they have two treatment
   variables. The stable groups assumption is not applicable here, as none of the two sets of
   fixed effects included in the regression correspond to an ordered variable. This is a sharp
   design.

9. Zhang and Zhu (2011), Group Size and Incentives to Contribute: A Natural
   Experiment at Chinese Wikipedia. Tables 3 and 4, Columns 4-6.
   In the regression in, say, Table 3 Column (4), the dependent variable is the total number
   of contributions to Wikipedia by individual i at period t, regressed on individual fixed
   effects, an indicator for whether period t is after the Wikipedia block, the interaction of
   this indicator and a measure of social participation by individual i, and some controls. This
   regression corresponds to Regression 1 with some controls. The stable groups assumption
   is satisfied: there are individuals with a social participation measure equal to 0. This is a
   sharp design.

10. Hotz and Xiao (2011), The Impact of Regulations on the Supply and Quality

                                             15
