       RAMBACHAN AND ROTH               A MORE CREDIBLE APPROACH TO PARALLEL TRENDS                                2571

are not perfectly positively correlated with each other. Assumption 5 is used to guarantee that
degeneracy in the asymptotic distribution of γ  Ỹn arises only from known degeneracies in A. We
note, however, that Assumption 5 does not rule out settings where the solutions to the bounds
of the identified set given in equation (5) and (6) are non-unique or degenerate (i.e. where the
extreme points for θ occur at “flat faces” of the identified set). If A is full-rank, for example,
then Assumption 5(A) holds trivially with T = I , and thus the mean of the moments μ̃(θ̄ ) is
completely unrestricted.20
    The assumptions stated above are sufficient for the conditions in Proposition 2 in ARP, which




                                                                                                                             Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
establishes uniform size control for the conditional and hybrid tests.
Proposition 3.1. Suppose Assumptions 2–5 hold. Then the conditional and LF-hybrid tests
uniformly control size. That is, for any α < 0.5,
                                                                   
                                                               1
                      lim sup sup E P ψαC β̂ n , A, d, θ P , ˆ n        ≤ α.
                        n→∞ P∈P                                n
                                                                      
                                                                   1
                      lim sup sup E P ψκ,αC-L F
                                                 β̂ n , A, d, θ P , ˆ n    ≤ α.
                        n→∞ P∈P                                    n

3.4.    Uniform asymptotic consistency
We next provide conditions under which the conditional and hybrid tests are uniformly asymp-
totically consistent, in the sense that power against fixed alternatives outside the identified set
converges uniformly to 1. To establish uniform consistency of the conditional and hybrid tests,
we strengthen Assumptions 2 and 3 as follows.
Assumption 6. Let Wn = ((β̂ n − β P ) , (vec( ˆ n ) − vec( P )) ) , where vec( ) is the vector of
the elements of the matrix . We assume
                                            √                         
                     lim sup sup E P f ( nWn ) − E f (ξ P+ )  = 0,
                          n→∞ P∈P f ∈B L
                                              1

                                                         
where ξ P+ ∼ N (0, V P ), V P =               P   V P,β
                                           V P, β V P,     .

Assumption 7. For all P ∈ P, P ∈ S and the matrix V P defined in Assumption 6 lies in a
                                           †
compact set V. Additionally, ( P − V P,β V P, V P, β ) has eigenvalues bounded below by λ̃ > 0,
where † denotes the Moore–Penrose inverse.
    Assumption 6 strengthens Assumption 2 to require that β̂ n and ˆ n have a joint normal
asymptotic distribution. Although somewhat more restrictive, event-study estimates are often
estimated via OLS, and standard covariance estimators for OLS, including cluster-robust vari-
ance estimators, produce asymptotically normal estimates as the number of clusters grows large
(Hansen, 2007; Stock and Watson, 2008; Hansen and Lee, 2019). We do not impose that the
asymptotic distributions of β̂ n and ˆ n are independent, as would occur in linear models if
the linear model is correctly specified. Assumption 7 strengthens Assumption 3 to require that
the asymptotic distribution of β̂ n is not perfectly asymptotically colinear with ˆ n .


       20. Some values of A satisfying Assumption 5 may imply that certain pairs of moments cannot simultaneously
be binding. For example, the restriction that |δ1 | ≤ 1 can be represented as δ1 ≤ 1 and −δ1 ≤ 1, which satisfies Assump-
tion 5(A), but clearly both moments cannot simultaneously bind. Nevertheless Assumption 5(A) is compatible with “flat
faces” even when A is not full rank. For example, if  corresponds with the restrictions |δ1 | ≤ 1 and |δ2 | ≤ 1, then the
extreme points for θ = τ2 occur at flat faces of the identified set for (τ1 , τ2 ).
