2584                                   REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES




                                                                                                                        Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
                                                        F IGURE 4
          Event-study coefficients {βs } for log profits, estimated using the event-study specification in (19).



than those in the pre-treatment period—whereas imposing that industry-specific shocks fol-
low a smooth trend seems unreasonable—and so we base our analysis on bounds on relative
magnitudes  R M ( M̄).
    The left panel of Figure 5 shows robust confidence sets for the treatment effect in 2009 for
 R M ( M̄) using different values of M̄. The figure shows that if we impose M̄ = 1, meaning that
we restrict the post-treatment violations of parallel trends to be no larger than the maximal pre-
treatment violation of parallel trends, then we obtain a robust confidence set of [0.07, 0.31] for
the causal effect on restaurant profits in 2009. This is wider than the original OLS confidence
interval which is only valid if parallel trends holds exactly, but nevertheless rules out a null effect
on restaurant profits in 2009. Looking further to the right, we see that the “breakdown value” for
a null effect is around M̄ = 2. Thus, our conclusion of a significant effect on restaurant profits
depends on whether we are willing to restrict that the post-treatment violations of parallel trends
can be no more than twice as large as the maximal pre-treatment violation. Given that the first
year after the treatment coincided with a large recession in France (2009), it may be plausible
that the differential factors affecting restaurants were larger in that year than in the pre-treatment
period. Our approach helps formalize how much larger they would need to be to reject the
conclusion of a null effect (or other hypotheses).
    The right panel of Figure 5 shows analogous results when the estimand is the average causal
effect on restaurant profits across all four post-treatment periods (τ̄ ). When M̄ = 1, our robust
confidence set now includes zero, and is about twice as large as for the first-period effect. The
intuition for why the confidence sets are larger when looking at τ̄ than τ2009 is that  R M ( M̄)
bounds the violation of parallel trends across consecutive periods by M̄ times the max in the
pre-treatment period. Thus, the identified set will be larger for later periods, since the treatment
and control groups have more time to diverge (e.g. the identified set for the second period will
be twice as larger as for the first period).34 If we are willing to bound the magnitude of economic


      34. This intuition holds generally for choices of  that bound changes across consecutive periods, but need not
necessarily hold for other types of restrictions.
