      RAMBACHAN AND ROTH                     A MORE CREDIBLE APPROACH TO PARALLEL TRENDS                                           2581




                                                                                                                                              Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
                                                          F IGURE 3
          Simulation results for  S D R M ( M̄) and  R M ( M̄): Median efficiency ratios for proposed procedures.
Note: Median efficiency ratios for our proposed confidence sets over  S D R M ( M̄) and  R M ( M̄) with M̄ = 1 under the assumption of
zero treatment effects and a “pulse” pre-trend (i.e. β−1 = δ−1 and βt = 0 for all t = −1). The efficiency ratio for a procedure is defined
as the efficiency bound divided by the procedure’s expected excess length. The results for the conditional-least favourable (“C-LF”)
hybrid are plotted in blue, and conditional confidence set in green. Results are averaged over 1,000 simulations for each of the 12 papers
surveyed, and the median across papers is reported here.



    5.2.2. Results for  S D P B (M). The right panel of Figure 2 plots the efficiency ratio for
each procedure as a function of M/σ1 when  =  S D P B (M). The efficiency ratios for the con-
ditional and hybrid confidence sets are again (near-)optimal as M/σ1 grows large, highlighting
our asymptotic (near-)optimality results for these procedures in this simulation design. By con-
trast, the efficiency ratios for the FLCIs steadily decrease as M/σ1 increases, reflecting that the
FLCIs are not consistent in this simulation design when M > 0. The conditional-LF hybrid con-
fidence sets slightly improve efficiency relative to the conditional confidence sets when M/σ1 is
small and retain near-optimal performance as M/σ1 grows large.

    5.2.3. Results for  S D R M ( M̄). The left panel of Figure 3 plots the efficiency ratios for
the conditional and conditional-least favourable hybrid confidence sets as a function of δ−1 /σ1
when  =  S D R M ( M̄). We omit results for the optimal FLCI since the optimal FLCI has infi-
nite length for this design. Both procedures perform well as δ−1 /σ1 grows large with efficiency
ratios approaching 1, illustrating our asymptotic (near-) optimality result for this design. Both
procedures also have similar power curves, with slightly higher power for the conditional.

    5.2.4. Results for  R M ( M̄). The right panel of Figure 3 plots the efficiency ratio for the
conditional and conditional-least favourable hybrid confidence sets as a function of δ−1 /σ1 when
 =  R M ( M̄). We again omit results for the optimal FLCI since the optimal FLCI has infinite
length for this design. The conditions for our asymptotic (near-) optimality result for unions of
convex sets do not hold in this simulation design (as the maximum pre-period violation is not
unique). Nonetheless, we find that the efficiency ratios for the conditional and hybrid confidence
sets approach about 83% when δ−1 /σ1 grow large. We find it somewhat encouraging that these
procedures can have excess length within 17% of the optimum even in cases where LICQ fails.
Once again, we also find that the conditional and conditional-least favourable hybrid have similar
power.

    5.2.5. Takeaways from simulations. Two clear patterns emerge from our simulations.
First, the conditional and hybrid confidence sets perform well across a wide range of speci-
fications, with particularly good power when the length of the identified set is large relative to
sampling variation. Second, the FLCIs have the best performance for SD (M), particularly when
