       RAMBACHAN AND ROTH               A MORE CREDIBLE APPROACH TO PARALLEL TRENDS                                2585




                                                                                                                             Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
                                                       F IGURE 5
                                 Sensitivity analysis for Benzarti and Carloni (2019b).



shocks by the max in the pre-treatment period, we will thus typically obtain wider confidence
sets for parameters involving later periods.
    Finally, in Supplementary Material, Appendix C, we compare the confidence sets reported
in Figure 5 to the sample analogue to the identified set, S(β̂, ), which we show is a Hausdorff
consistent estimator of the identified set in this example. We find that the reported confidence
sets are between 40 and 80% longer than the estimated identified set, suggesting that both sam-
pling uncertainty and the length of the identified set play an important role in the width of the
confidence sets.


6.3.    The effect of duty-to-bargain laws on long-run student outcomes
Lovenheim and Willen (2019a, henceforth LW) study the impact of state-level public sector
duty-to-bargain (DTB) laws, which mandated that school districts bargain in good faith with
teachers’ unions. LW examine the impacts of these laws on the adult labour market outcomes of
people who were students around the time that these laws were passed, comparing individuals
across different states and different birth cohorts to exploit the differential timing of the passage
of DTB laws across states. The authors estimate the following OLS regression specification
separately for men and women, using data from the American Community Survey (ACS),

                                        
                                        21
                                                            
                              Ysct =            Dscr βr + X sct γ + λct + φs + sct .                                (20)
                                       r =−11


Ysct is an average outcome for the cohort of students born in state s in cohort c in ACS calendar
year t. Dscr is an indicator for whether state s passed a DTB law r years before cohort c turned
age 18.35 The event-study coefficients {β̂ r } estimate the dynamic treatment effects (or placebo


        35. Dsc,−11 is set to 1 if state s passed a law 11 years or more after cohort c turned 18. Likewise, Dsc,21 is set
to 1 if state s passed a law 21 or more years before cohort c turned 18.
