    RAMBACHAN AND ROTH           A MORE CREDIBLE APPROACH TO PARALLEL TRENDS                   2587




                                                                                                        Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
                                                  F IGURE 7
                           Sensitivity analysis for θ = τ15 using  = SD (M).




intervals for β̂ 15 from specification (20). In red, we plot FLCIs when  = SD (M) for different
values of M; recall that M = 0 corresponds with allowing only for linear violations of parallel
trends, and larger values of M allow for larger deviations from linearity. In the analysis for men
(left panel), the FLCIs are similar to those from OLS when allowing for violations of parallel
trends that are approximately linear (M ≈ 0), but become wider as we allow for more non-
linearity; the breakdown value for a significant effect is M ≈ 0.01. For women (right panel), the
original OLS estimates are negative and the confidence interval rules out 0. When we allow for
linear violations of parallel trends (M = 0), however, the picture changes substantially owing
to the pre-existing downward trend that is visible in Figure 6. Indeed, for M < 0.01 the robust
confidence set contains only positive values. Intuitively, this is because the point estimate for
t = 15 lies above a linear extrapolation of the negative pre-trend. Thus, if we were to impose
the same smoothness restrictions for men as for women, we would either have to reconcile
significant effects of opposite signs by gender (if M < 0.01) or we would not be able to rule out
null effects for both genders (M ≥ 0.01).
    How can we interpret the magnitudes of M in this example? We consider a calibration exer-
cise based on the magnitudes of possible possible confounds: if violations of parallel trends
were driven by confounding changes in education quality, what would a given value of M imply
about the evolution of those confounds? Chetty et al. (2014) estimate that a 1 standard deviation
increase in teacher value-added (VA) corresponds with a 0.4 percentage point increase in adult
employment. Hence, a value of M = 0.01 would correspond with allowing the slope of the dif-
ferential trend to change by the equivalent of a one-fourtieth of a standard deviation of teacher
VA across consecutive periods. Since the robust confidence sets for both men and women begin
to include zero around this value of M, the strength with which we can rule out a null effect
depends on our assessment of the economic plausibility of such non-linearities.
    Finally, in Supplementary Material, Appendix C, we again compare the reported confidence
sets to the estimated identified set S(β̂, ). Our results suggest that sampling uncertainty is large
relative to the length of the identified set when M is close to zero, but becomes less important as
M increases.
