2580                                         REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES




                                                                                                                                              Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
                                                        F IGURE 2
           Simulation results for SD (M) and  S D P B (M): Median efficiency ratios for proposed procedures.
Note: Median efficiency ratios for our proposed confidence sets over SD (M) and  S D P B (M) under the assumption of parallel trends
and zero treatment effects (i.e. β = 0). The efficiency ratio for a procedure is defined as the efficiency bound divided by the procedure’s
expected excess length. The results for the FLCI are plotted in purple, conditional-LF (“C-LF Hybrid”) hybrid in blue, and conditional
confidence set in green. Results are averaged over 1,000 simulations for each of the 12 papers surveyed, and the median across papers is
reported here.




    We report results for three methods for constructing confidence sets: FLCIs, conditional
confidence sets, and conditional-least favourable hybrid confidence sets.30 For  R M ( M̄) and
 S D R M ( M̄), we omit results for the FLCI since the FLCIs have infinite length.


5.2.     Simulation results
To compare results easily across the 12 papers in the simulation study, we normalize the units
of δ−1 and M by the standard deviation of β̂ 1 (denoted σ1 ). Large normalized values of M or
δ−1 correspond with the case where the identified set is large relative to sampling variation,
mimicking our asymptotic power results in which sampling variation grows small relative to the
identified set. In the graphs below, we report the median value of excess length efficiency across
the papers in the survey. The normalization described above implies that the units of the x-axis
correspond with the worst-case bias of the naive estimator β̂ 1 divided by its standard error.31

    5.2.1. Results for SD (M). The left panel of Figure 2 plots the efficiency ratio for each
procedure as a function of M/σ1 when  = SD (M). All procedures perform well as M/σ1
grows large with efficiency ratios approaching 1, illustrating our asymptotic (near-)optimality
results for this design. However, the FLCIs perform best for smaller values of M/σ1 , includ-
ing the point-identified case where M = 0, illustrating the finite-sample near-optimality results
for the FLCIs when Assumption 8 holds. Although the conditional and hybrid confidence sets
have efficiency approaching the optimal bound for M/σ1 large, their efficiency is only about
50% when M/σ1 = 0, in which case θ is point identified and thus LICQ does not hold. The
conditional and hybrid confidence sets perform similarly.



       30. For the conditional-least favourable hybrid confidence sets, we use a first-stage least-favourable test of size
κ = α/10, following ARP and Romano et al. (2014).
       31. For β̂ 1 normally distributed, the worst-case coverage of a conventional 95% confidence interval as a function
of the normalized worst-case bias b is (1.96 + b) − (−1.96 + b), which is 0.95 for b = 0, 0.83 for b = 1, 0.48 for
b = 2, etc.
