       RAMBACHAN AND ROTH            A MORE CREDIBLE APPROACH TO PARALLEL TRENDS                            2559

the outcome of the treated group. Leavitt (2020) proposes an empirical Bayes approach cali-
brated to pre-treatment differences in trends, and Bilinski and Hatfield (2020) and Dette and
Schumann (2020) propose non-inferiority approaches based on pre-tests for the magnitude of
the pre-treatment violations of parallel trends.
    Our methods address several concerns related to current empirical practice in DiD and event-
study designs. First, pre-trends tests may be underpowered against meaningful violations of
parallel trends, potentially leading to severe undercoverage of conventional confidence inter-
vals (Freyaldenhoven et al., 2019; Bilinski and Hatfield, 2020; Kahn-Lang and Lang, 2020;




                                                                                                                      Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
Roth, 2022). Second, statistical distortions from pre-trends tests may further undermine the per-
formance of conventional inference procedures (Roth, 2022). Third, parametric approaches to
controlling for pre-existing trends may be sensitive to functional form assumptions (Wolfers,
2006; Lee and Solon, 2011). We address these issues by providing tools for inference that
do not rely on an exact parallel trends assumption, incorporate statistical uncertainty about
the estimated event-study coefficients, and make clear the mapping between the researcher’s
assumptions about the potential differences in trends and the strength of their causal conclusions.
    Our work complements a growing literature on the causal interpretation of event-study
coefficients in two-way fixed effects models in the presence of staggered treatment timing
and heterogeneous treatment effects (Borusyak and Jaravel, 2016; Callaway and Sant’Anna,
2020; de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfæuille, 2020; Sun and Abraham, 2020; Athey and Imbens,
2021; Goodman-Bacon, 2021). A key finding is that regression coefficients from conventional
approaches may not produce convex weighted averages of treatment effects even if parallel
trends holds. Several alternative estimators have been proposed that consistently estimate inter-
pretable causal estimands under a suitable parallel trends assumption. Our methodology can be
used in conjunction with these alternative estimators to assess their sensitivity to violations of
the corresponding parallel trends assumption; see Section 2.1 for additional details.
    More broadly, our work contributes to a larger econometric literature that uses partial
identification to provide empirical researchers with tractable tools to conduct inference under
assumptions that may be more credible in empirical practice; see, for example, Manski (2003,
2007, 2013), Tamer (2010), Ho and Rosen (2017), and Molinari (2020) for reviews.


                                            2. MODEL SET-UP
2.1.    Event-study coefficients
We suppose that the researcher has estimated a vector of “event-study coefficients” β̂ n ∈ RT¯ +T̄ ,
which can be partitioned into vectors of coefficients corresponding with the pre-treatment
                                                   
and post-treatment periods, β̂ n = (β̂ n, pr e , β̂ n, post ), where β̂ n, pr e ∈ RT¯ and β̂ n, post ∈ RT̄ . Event-
study estimates of this form arise from non-staggered DiD as well as a variety of related
estimators, as we illustrate with several examples
Example 1 (Non-staggered DiD). Consider the canonical DiD setting in which we have a bal-
anced panel of units from period t = −T, . . . , T̄ , and units with Di = 1 receive a treatment
                                         ¯ D = 0 never receive the treatment. It is common to
beginning in period t = 1, while units with i
report DiD estimates of the form

                                     β̂ s = (Ȳs1 − Ȳs0 ) − (Ȳ01 − Ȳ00 ),

where Ȳsd is the sample mean of the outcome for units with Di = d in period t = s. Intuitively,
β̂ s compares the change in the mean outcome between period 0 and period s for the treated
and comparison units. In this setting, the estimates β̂ s are numerically equivalent to the OLS
