       RAMBACHAN AND ROTH                A MORE CREDIBLE APPROACH TO PARALLEL TRENDS                                     2567

    For the purposes of developing tests, it will be useful to re-cast this null hypothesis in terms
of moments involving an unrestricted nuisance parameter τ̃ of dimension T̄ − 1. By applying a
change of basis to the matrix AL post , we can re-write the expression AL post τ post as Ã (θ, τ̃  )
for τ̃ ∈ RT̄ −1 .13 The null H0 is then equivalent to

                                                                            
                                   H0 : ∃τ̃ ∈ RT̄ −1 s.t. E Ỹn (θ̄ ) − X̃ τ̃ ≤ 0,                                        (13)




                                                                                                                                   Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
where Ỹ (θ̄ ) = Yn − Ã(·,1) θ̄ and X̃ = Ã(·,−1) .14 Since Ỹn (θ̄ ) is normally distributed with covari-
ance matrix ˜ n = A n A under the finite-sample normal model, testing H0 : θ = θ̄, δ ∈  is
equivalent to testing a system of moment inequalities with linear nuisance parameters.
    The testing problem (13) is a special case of the problem studied in ARP, which focuses
on testing null hypotheses of the form H0 : ∃τ s.t. E [Y (θ ) − X τ | X ] ≤ 0 (a.s.). Our setting is
a special case of this framework in which: i) the variable X takes the degenerate distribution
X = X̃ , and ii) Y (θ ) = Ỹ (θ ) is linear in θ . This additional structure will play an important role
in the development of our asymptotic power results below.


3.2.    Constructing conditional and hybrid confidence sets
We consider tests for the system of moment inequalities described above using the conditional
and hybrid methods proposed by ARP. This is for both computational and efficiency reasons.
From the computational perspective, a practical challenge to testing the hypothesis (13) in our
setting is that the dimension of the nuisance parameter τ̃ is T̄ − 1, and thus will be large if there
are many post-treatment periods. For example, 5 of the 12 recent event-study papers reviewed
in Roth (2022) have T̄ > 10. This renders many moment inequality methods, especially those
which rely on test inversion over a grid for the full parameter vector, computationally infeasible.
To tractably deal with the nuisance parameter, we consider tests based on the conditional and
hybrid approaches of ARP, which directly exploit the linear structure of the hypothesis (13)
to deliver computationally tractable tests even when the number of post-treatment periods T̄
is large.15 From the perspective of power, we will show that the tests proposed by ARP have
(near-)optimal local asymptotic power in our setting when an LICQ condition is satisfied.
    We briefly sketch the construction of the conditional testing approach in our setting, and refer
the reader to ARP for full details. These tests are implemented in the HonestDiD R and Stata
packages that accompany the paper.




       13. Let    be a square matrix with the vector l  in the firstrow and remaining
                                                                                    rows chosen so that          has full rank.
                                                                             θ
Define Ã := AL post   −1 . Then AL
                                      post τ post = Ã τ post = Ã       (−1,·) τ post
                                                                                   . If T̄ = 1, then τ̃ is 0-dimensional and
                                                                            :=τ̃
should be interpreted as 0.
        14. We use the notation V(·,1) to denote the first column of a matrix V , and V(·,−1) to denote the matrix containing
all but the first column of V .
        15. Other moment inequality methods have been proposed for subvector inference, but typically do not exploit
the linear structure of our setting—see, e.g. Romano and Shaikh (2008), Chernozhukov et al. (2015), Bugni et al.
(2017) and Chen et al. (2018) and Kaido et al. (2019). Cho and Russell (2019), Gafarov (2019), and Flynn (2019) also
provide methods for subvector inference with linear moment inequalities, but in contrast to our approach require a linear
independence constraint qualification (LICQ) assumption for size control. More recently, Cox and Shi (2022) introduced
new tests for the linear moment inequality setting in ARP; see Section 3.5 below for further discussion.
