2560                                   REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES

coefficients from the regression
                                                   
                              Yit = λi + φt +                βs × 1[t = s] × Di + it .                              (2)
                                                      s=0


In this case, β̂ post collects the estimated coefficients corresponding with treated periods,
(β̂ 1 , . . . , β̂ T̄ ), while β̂ pr e collects the estimated coefficients corresponding with periods before
treatment (β̂ −T , . . . β̂ −1 ).




                                                                                                                           Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
                 ¯
Example 2 (Staggered DiD). Event-study coefficients can also be obtained from more compli-
cated DiD procedures. For example, in settings with staggered treatment timing, Callaway and
Sant’Anna (2020) propose event-study estimates of the form
                                      
                               β̂ r =        
                                         wg AT  T (g, g + r ),
                                                  g


where AT  T (g, t) is a DiD estimate that compares the evolution of the outcome for units first
treated at period g to units first-treated after period t between time periods g − 1 and t, and
the wg are weights that sum to one (e.g. proportional to sample size). In this case, β̂ post col-
lects the values of β̂ r for r ≥ 0 (i.e. estimates where one of the groups is treated), and β̂ pr e
collects the values of β̂ r for values of r < 0. Several other related procedures have been pro-
posed for constructing event-study coefficients in contexts with staggered treatment timing; see
de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfæuille (2021) and Roth et al. (2022) for reviews.
Example 3 (Other related estimators). Other examples of estimators that can be used to produce
event-studies coefficients of the form considered here include the GMM procedure proposed by
Freyaldenhoven et al. (2019), instrumental variables event-studies (Hudson et al., 2017), as well
estimators that flexibly control for differences in covariates between treated and comparison
groups (e.g. Heckman et al., 1998; Abadie, 2005; Sant’Anna and Zhao, 2020).


2.2.   Causal decomposition
Under mild regularity conditions,√all of the estimators described above will be asymptotically
normally distributed, satisfying n(β̂ n − β) → N (0, ∗ ) for some parameter vector β. We
assume the parameter vector β satisfies the following causal decomposition.
Assumption 1. The parameter vector β can be decomposed as
                                             
                              τ pr e     δ
                       β=             + pr e      with τ pr e = 0.                                                  (3)
                              τ post     δ post
                                 
                                           =:τ               =:δ

    The first term, τ , represents the treatment effects of interest. We assume the treatment has
no causal effect prior to its implementation, so τ pr e = 0. The second term, δ, represents the
difference in trends between the treated and comparison groups that would have occurred absent
treatment. The parallel trends assumption imposes that δ post = 0, and therefore β post = τ post
under parallel trends.3


      3. Although our focus is on generalized DiD settings, our results apply to any setting where the researcher has an
asymptotically normally distributed estimator β̂ of a reduced form parameter β that satisfies (3). For example, β̂ could
