2558                                   REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES

pre-treatment violation of parallel trends. As a sensitivity analysis, the researcher might also
report confidence sets that allow the maximum post-treatment violation of parallel trends to be
up to M̄ times larger than the maximum pre-treatment violation for different values of M̄. The
proposed sensitivity analysis thus follows the “top-down” approach described by Tamer (2010),
in which the researcher reports what can be learned under a sequence of progressively weaker
assumptions. Performing such sensitivity analyses makes clear what must be assumed about the
possible differences in trends in order to draw specific causal conclusions, in line with the par-
tial identification paradigm initiated by Charles Manski and co-authors in a variety of contexts




                                                                                                                            Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
(Manski, 1989, 1990, 2003, 2008). We provide the HonestDiD R and Stata packages to imple-
ment our methods.1 We illustrate our recommended approach with applications to two recently
published papers, in which we show how the choice of the restrictions  can be tailored to the
economic context.


1.1.   Related literature
The approach in this paper builds on the foundational partial identification analysis for DiD in
Manski and Pepper (2018). Manski and Pepper consider identification under researcher-specified
bounds on the magnitude of δ post (what they call “bounded DiD variation”), and calibrate these
bounds using the maximal pre-treatment violation of parallel trends in their empirical applica-
tion on the effects of right-to-carry gun laws.2 One of our leading classes of restrictions,  R M ,
formalizes this calibration approach by bounding the magnitude of post-treatment violations of
parallel trends by M̄ times the maximal pre-treatment violation. Our framework also allows for
many other intuitive restrictions—such as bounds on how far δ can deviate from linearity—and
it can be applied to a variety of DiD estimators, including recent proposals for settings with
staggered treatment timing. Most importantly, while Manski and Pepper (2018) provide a frame-
work for identification, we provide inference methods to construct uniformly valid confidence
sets for the treatment effect of interest. This allows applied researchers to account for statisti-
cal uncertainty in their analyses, which can be important since event-study coefficients are often
imprecisely estimated in practice.
    Several other recent papers consider various relaxations of the parallel trends assumption.
Keele et al. (2019) develop techniques for testing the sensitivity of DiD designs to violations of
the parallel trends assumption, but they do not incorporate information from the observed pre-
trends in their sensitivity analysis. Empirical researchers commonly adjust for the extrapolation
of a linear trend from the pre-treatment periods when there are concerns about violations of the
parallel trends assumption, which is valid if the difference in trends is exactly linear (e.g.Bhuller
et al., 2013; Dobkin et al., 2018; Goodman-Bacon, 2018, 2021). Our methods nest this approach
as a special case, but allow for valid inference under less restrictive assumptions about the class
of possible differences in trends (such as when δ is only approximately linear). Freyaldenhoven
et al. (2019) propose a method that allows for violations of the parallel trends assumption but
requires an additional covariate that is affected by the same confounding factors as the outcome
but not by the treatment of interest. Ye et al. (2020) consider partial identification of treatment
effects when there exist two control groups whose outcomes have a bracketing relationship with



        1. The latest version of the R and Stata packages are respectively available at
https://github.com/asheshrambachan/HonestDiD and https://github.com/mcaceresb/stata-honestdid/.
        2. Manski and Pepper (2018) also consider “bounded time” and “bounded state” restrictions that bound how
much the mean of Y (0) can differ either across treatment groups or within-groups over time. Such restrictions could also
be incorporated into our framework by augmenting the vector β̂ to include group-specific sample averages.
