2556                               REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES

a large class of restrictions that impose that the post-treatment violations of parallel trends can-
not be “too different” from the pre-trends. We then introduce methods that yield uniformly valid
inference for the treatment effect under the imposed restrictions. Intuitively, our inference meth-
ods account for both statistical uncertainty (we can only noisily estimate the true pre-trend) as
well as “identification uncertainty” (even if the true pre-trend were known, we may not know
exactly how to extrapolate it). Our approach thus formalizes the intuition motivating pre-trends
testing while avoiding the statistical issues described above.
    More concretely, we consider a setting in which the researcher estimates a vector of “event-




                                                                                                               Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
                                     
study” coefficients β̂ = (β̂ pr e , β̂ post ) ∈ RT¯ +T̄ , where β̂ pr e and β̂ post respectively correspond
with estimates for T pre-treatment periods and T̄ post-treatment periods. We assume that β̂ is
                     ¯
consistent for the reduced-form      parameter β, which can be decomposed as

                                                                     
                                                 0               δ pr e
                                        β=                 +             ,                              (1)
                                              τ post            δ post
                                                             
                                                 =:τ               =:δ


where τ is a causal parameter of interest that is assumed to be 0 in the pre-treatment period and
δ is a bias from a difference in trends. For instance, in the canonical (non-staggered) DiD frame-
work, β̂ may be the coefficients from an “event-study regression” specification, τ the vector of
period-specific average treatment effects on the treated (ATT) for some policy of interest, and
δ the difference in trends of untreated potential outcomes between the treated and comparison
groups. As we discuss in Section 2, this framework also applies to more complicated empiri-
cal settings, such as those with staggered treatment timing (e.g. Callaway and Sant’Anna, 2020;
Sun and Abraham, 2020). The usual parallel trends assumption used to point identify τ post is
that δ post = 0, and researchers frequently assess the plausibility of this assumption by testing
the null hypothesis δ pr e = 0 (a “pre-trends” test).
    Instead of imposing that the parallel trends assumption holds exactly, we place restrictions on
the possible post-treatment differences in trends δ post given the point identified pre-trends δ pr e .
Such restrictions formalize the intuition motivating pre-trends tests, namely that pre-trends are
informative about counterfactual post-treatment differences in trends. Formally, we assume that
δ ∈  for some researcher-specified set , and show that the causal parameter τ post is partially
identified under such restrictions.
    Restrictions of this form can be used to formalize a wide variety of intuitions about possible
violations of the parallel trends assumption that are commonly expressed in applied work. For
example, as discussed in Manski and Pepper (2018), researchers may be willing to assume that
the confounding factors that create post-treatment violations of parallel trends are similar in
magnitude to those in the pre-treatment period. This intuition can be formalized by specifying a
 that bounds the maximal post-treatment violation of parallel trends by a parameter M̄ times the
maximal pre-treatment violation of parallel trends. In other contexts, researchers are concerned
about violations of parallel trends from secular trends that are assumed to evolve smoothly over
time. This intuition can be formalized by bounding the extent to which the slope of the violation
of parallel trends can change over time. We adopt a flexible framework that allows researchers
to capture these intuitions, as well as many other restrictions that are implied by context-specific
knowledge about possible confounding factors.
    We then introduce methods to conduct uniformly valid inference on a scalar parameter of
the form θ = l  τ post under the restriction δ ∈ . As emphasized in the recent literature on pre-
trends testing, the pre-treatment coefficients β̂ pr e are often imprecise estimates of δ pr e . It is
therefore important to introduce inference methods that account for the statistical uncertainty
