(Acemoglu et al., 2022; Fossen and Sorgner, 2021).7 In our replication, we replaced the original
human expert surveys with synthetic surveys conducted using GPT-4o via OpenAI’s API.
    The AIOE measures the degree of overlap between advancements in AI and workplace abil-
ities. They define 10 key AI applications from the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which have
seen considerable development since 2010: abstract strategy games, real-time video games, im-
age recognition, visual question answering, image generation, reading comprehension, language
modeling, translation, and speech recognition. They then link these AI applications to the 52 la-
bor abilities recorded in O*NET by conducting 2,000 surveys with gig workers from Amazon’s
Mechanical Turk (MTurk).8 Each participant was asked whether they believe each application is
related to each ability, with a yes or no answer. These responses were processed as binary variables
and averaged across all respondents to construct a matrix of relatedness, with a score between 0
and 1 for each application and each ability. The ability-level exposure was calculated as the sum
of the scores of all applications for Ability j (A j ). Finally, they calculated the occupation-level
(AIOEk ) for every occupation k as follows:

                                                    ř52
                                                       j=1 A j ˆ L jk ˆ I jk
                                        AIOEk =         ř52                                                      (1)
                                                          j=1 L jk ˆ I jk

    Using the replication files for the AIOE made available online by the authors, we re-estimated
the AIOEk by replacing the matrix built with mTurk surveys with a vector resulting from surveys
conducted with GPT-4o through OpenAI’s API. Instead of defining the 10 AI applications, we
asked the language model the following: ”Based on recent advancements in AI, please answer
’Yes’ or ’No’ depending on whether you believe that AI is related to or could be used for the
following ability: [ability name] [ability description].” This was done for the 52 abilities defined in
O*NET and repeated 100 times, with the temperature setting randomized. Although this approach
differs from the original methodology by not specifying 10 applications, we made this change to
minimize conditioning the model. This method likely results in a more conservative estimate of
the index by reducing potential similarities between the original and replicated indexes.
    Since we do not have specific AI applications, we calculated the A j as 10 times the average
score from the 100 iterations. This adjustment was made solely for comparability purposes and
does not affect the index calculation. We then ran the same equation (1) and computed the new
index.
    The results from the estimation, and the comparison with the original index, can be observed
in Figure 3. The correlation between both indexes is 0.99, indicating a very high degree of repli-
cability and very small variations between the answers from the mTurk workers and the answers
   7 The AIOE was initially introduced in Felten et al. (2018) and subsequently modified and updated in Felten et al.

(2021).
    8 Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk) is an online crowdsourcing platform that allows businesses to outsource a

wide range of tasks to a global, distributed workforce. These tasks can vary from data validation and research to
content moderation and survey participation.



                                                        18
