area. The treatment effect in levels for Y may be difficult to interpret, since a change in employment
of 1,000 means something very different in New York City versus a small rural town. However, if X
is the area’s population, then Ỹ is the employment-to-population ratio, which may be more compa-
rable across places, and is already in percentage (i.e. per capita) units. We note that the ATE for
Ỹ is a scale-invariant, point-identified parameter of the form θ “ EP rgpY p1q, Y p0q, Xqs, and thus
escapes the trilemma in Proposition 2 by avoiding property (a).25 The viability of this approach, of
course, depends on having a variable X such that the normalized outcome Ỹ is of economic inter-
est. We suspect that in many contexts, reasonable options will be available, including pre-treatment
observations of the outcome (assuming these are positive), or the predicted control outcome given
some observable characteristics (i.e., X “ ErY p0q | W s, for observable characteristics W ).
       A second example is to use Ỹ “ FY ˚ pY q, where FY ˚ is the cumulative distribution function
(CDF) of some reference random variable Y ˚ , as suggested in Delius and Sterck (2020). The trans-
formed outcome Ỹ then corresponds to the rank (i.e. percentile) of an individual in the reference
distribution, and the ATE for Ỹ can be interpreted as the average change in rank caused by the
treatment. The ATE for Ỹ is unit-invariant so long as Y and Y ˚ and measured in the same units.
Outcomes of this form have become increasingly popular in the literature on intergenerational mo-
bility, where Ỹ corresponds to a child’s rank in the national income distribution. This approach has
been found to yield more stable estimates than approaches using logpc ` Y q, which Chetty et al.
(2014) show are sensitive to the choice of c.26
       Finally, the researcher might report treatment effects on transformed outcomes of the form
1rY ě ys for different values of y. For example, the researcher might report the impact of the
treatment on the probability that an individual earns at least $50,000, $60,000, etc., and interpret
it as the treatment effect on the probability of obtaining a “well-paying job.” 27 Such treatment
effects have interpretable units as percentage points (i.e. changes in probabilities). We note that
treatment effects for outcomes of this form combine the effect of the treatment along the intensive
and extensive margin, since for example, a worker who has Y p1q ą $50, 000 ą Y p0q could either not
work under control (Y p0q “ 0) or work under control but have earnings below $50,000.

4.2      When the goal is to capture decreasing returns
We next consider the case where the researcher wants to capture some form of decreasing marginal
utility over the outcome. For example, when Y is strictly positively valued, the ATE in logs corre-
sponds to the change in utility from implementing the treatment for a utilitarian social planner with
log utility over the outcome, U “ ErlogpY qs. Intuitively, this social welfare function captures the
fact that the planner values a percentage point of change in the outcome equally for all individuals,
regardless of their initial level of the outcome.
  25
      It is scale-invariant in the sense that gpy1 , y0 , xq “ gpay1 , ay0 , axq.
  26
      Similar to the discussion in Footnote 21, the treatment effect in ranks cannot be converted back to obtain the
ATE in levels without additional assumptions.
   27
      The researcher could also report the implied CDF of Y p1q and Y p0q, from which one can infer the treatment
effect on outcomes of this form for all y.



                                                        19
