               “ loooooooooooooooooooooooomoooooooooooooooooooooooon
                 ErY p1q ´ Y p0q | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0s
                               Intensive margin effect

                     ` α pErY   p1q | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q “ 0s ´ ErY p1q | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0sq,
                         looooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooomooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooon
                                                              Selection term

where the first equality uses iterated expectations, and the second re-arranges terms.
    The previous display shows that τb is the sum of two terms. The first is the ATE for individuals
who would have a positive outcome regardless of treatment status (similar to θIntensive in Section 4,
except using Y instead of logpY q). The second term is not a causal effect, but rather represents
a selection term: it is proportional to the difference in the average value of Y p1q for “compliers”
who would have positive outcomes only under treatment versus “always-takers” who would have
positive outcomes regardless of treatment status. In many economic contexts, we may expect this
selection effect to be negative. For example, we may suspect that individuals who would only get
a job if they receive a particular training have lower ability, and hence lower values of Y p1q, than
individuals who would have a job regardless of training status. The marginal effect τb thus only has
an interpretation as an ATE along the intensive margin if either (a) there is no extensive margin
effect (α “ 0) or (b) we are willing to assume that the selection term is zero. Angrist (2001)
provided a similar decomposition (without imposing monotonicity), concluding that the two-part
model “seems ill-suited for causal inference,” at least without further restrictions on the potential
outcomes. See, also, Mullahy (2001) for additional discussion.


E     Details on Lee bounds using IV in Berkouwer and Dean (2022)
We now describe in detail our approach for constructing Lee (2009)-type bounds in the IV setting
of Berkouwer and Dean (2022).

Estimating the instrument-complier distributions. The first step is to estimate the distri-
bution of Y p0q and Y p1q for instrument-compliers. As shown in Abadie (2002), the CDF for Y p1q
for instrument-compliers at a point y can be consistently estimated by using two-stage least squares
to estimate the effect of treatment on the outcome Di 1rYi ď ys. The CDF for Y p0q for instrument-
compliers can analogously be obtained using the outcome pDi ´ 1q1rYi ď ys. We estimate these
TSLS regressions using analogues to (11) (except replacing arcsinhpYi q with the outcomes just de-
scribed) for all values of y contained in the data. We thus obtain empirical estimates of the CDFs
for instrument-compliers, F̂Y pdq pyq for d “ 0, 1.

Constructing bounds. Note that if U „ U r0, 1s, then Y pdq „ FY´1                ´1
                                                                pdq pU q, where FY pdq puq :“
infty | FY pdq pyq ě uu. With this formulation in mind, Lee (2009)’s bounds for ErlogpY p1qq | Y p1q ą
0, Y p0q ą 0s can be written as

       ErlogpFY´1
                p1q
                    pU qq | U P rθN T , θN T ` θAT ss ď ErlogpY p1qq | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0s


                                                             14
