The parameter θATE% may therefore be attractive in settings where the researcher does not want to
distinguish between the intensive and extensive margins. For example, if Y is a count of publications
by a researcher in a particular year, and publications are sometimes zero owing to the idiosyncracies
of the publication process, then it may be reasonable to view a change between 0 and 1 as similar
to a change between 1 and 2. On the other hand, in settings where a zero corresponds to a distinct
economic choice, such as not participating in the labor market, then it may be of interest to separate
the effects along the intensive and extensive margin, as we discuss in more detail in Section 4.3 below.
       It is also worth noting that if the researcher has determined that the ATE in levels is not of
economic interest, then similar issues will likely arise for θATE% , since θATE% is just a re-scaling of
the ATE in levels. For one, the ATE in levels (and hence θATE% ) imposes no diminishing returns,
and thus might be dominated by individuals in the tail of the outcome distribution, particularly
when the outcome is skewed. Whether this is warranted will depend on the economic question: if
the policy-maker’s goal is to reduce healthcare spending, it may not matter whether the savings
are produced mainly by reducing spending for a small fraction of individuals with catastrophic
medical spending. On the other hand, a policy that increases every American’s income by $100 and
one that increases Elon Musk’s income by $35 billion and has no effect on anyone else would have
approximately the same value of θATE% , yet the former may be vastly preferred by an inequality-
minded policy-maker. We therefore next turn to alternative approaches that place less weight on
the tails of the outcome distribution.

Normalizing other functionals. While θATE% normalizes the ATE by the control mean, one can
obtain scale-invariance by normalizing other functionals of the potential outcomes distributions.23
For example,
                                              MedianpY p1qq ´ MedianpY p0qq
                                θMedian% “                                  ,
                                                     MedianpY p0qq
is the quantile treatment effect at the median normalized by the median of Y p0q.24 Put otherwise,
it captures the percentage change in the median between the treated and control distributions.
(θMedian% thus may be particularly relevant for politicians interested in maximizing the happiness
of the median voter!) As is typically the case with quantile treatment effects, however, the numerator
of θMedian% need not correspond to the median of individual-level treatment effects. Moreover, in
many settings, decision-makers may care about treatment effects throughout the distribution, not
just at the median, in which case θMedian% may not be the most economically-relevant parameter.

Normalizing the outcome. A related approach to obtaining a treatment effect with more intu-
itive units is to estimate the ATE for a transformed outcome that has a percentage interpretation.
One example is to consider an outcome of the form Ỹ “ Y {X, where Y is the original outcome and
X is some pre-determined characteristic. For example, suppose Y is employment in a particular
  23
     Indeed, any functional φpP q is homogeneous of degree zero if and only if it can be written as the ratio of two
homogeneous of degree one functionals.
  24
     Note that θMedian% is well-defined only if MedianpY p0qq ą 0.



                                                        18
