what is the meaning of having negative latent earnings (Y ˚ pdq ă 0)?


D       Connection to two-part models
One approach recommended for settings with weakly-positive outcomes is to estimate a two-part
model (Mullahy and Norton, 2023). In this section, we briefly review two-part models, and show
that the marginal effects implied by these models do not correspond with ATEs for the intensive
margin without further restrictions on the potential outcomes. Thus, while two-part models strike
us as a reasonable approach if the goal is to model the conditional expectation function of ob-
served outcomes Y given treatment D (as in Mullahy and Norton (2023)), they will often not be
appropriate if instead the goal is to learn about a causal effect along the intensive margin.57
      The idea of a two-part model is to separately model the conditional distribution Y | D using (a)
a first model for the probability that Y is positive given D, P pY ą 0 | Dq (b) a second model for
the conditional expectation of Y given that it is positive, ErY | D, Y ą 0s. Common specifications
include logit or probit for part (a), and a linear regression of the positive values of Y on D for part
b); see, e.g., Belotti et al. (2015). After obtaining estimates of the two-part model, it is common to
evaluate the marginal effects of D on both parts, i.e. the implied values of

                               τa “ P pY ą 0 | D “ 1q ´ P pY ą 0 | D “ 0q
                               τb “ ErY | Y ą 0, D “ 1s ´ ErY | Y ą 0, D “ 0s.

      We now consider how the parameters of the two-part model relate to causal effects in the
potential outcomes model. Suppose, for simplicity, that the two-part model is well-specified, so
that it correctly models P pY ą 0 | Dq and ErY | Y ą 0, Ds. Suppose further that D is randomly
assigned, D KK Y p1q, Y p0q. In this case, we have that

                                τa “ P pY p1q ą 0q ´ P pY p0q ą 0q
                                τb “ ErY p1q | Y p1q ą 0s ´ ErY p0q | Y p0q ą 0s.

From the previous display, we see that the marginal effect on the first margin, τa , has a causal
interpretation: it is the treatment’s effect on the probability that the outcome is positive.
   The interpretation of the marginal effect on the second margin, τb , is more complicated, however.
For simplicity, suppose are willing to impose the “monotonicity” assumption discussed in Section 4,
P pY p1q “ 0, Y p0q ą 0q “ 0, so that anyone with a zero outcome under treatment also has a zero
outcome under control. Then, letting α “ P pY p0q “ 0 | Y p1q ą 0q, we can write τb as

                τb “ p1 ´ αqErY p1q | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0s
                        ` αErY p1q | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q “ 0s ´ ErY p0q | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0s
 57
      We are particularly grateful to John Mullahy for an enlightening discussion of this topic.



                                                           13
