 (b) The function g is scale-invariant.

  (c) θg is point-identified over P` .18

Any parameter defined with zero-valued outcomes must therefore abandon one of properties (a)–(c).
       As a special case, Proposition 2 implies that the ATE for any increasing function mpY q defined
at zero cannot be scale-invariant. This is because the ATE for mpY q takes the form in (a) with
gpy1 , y0 q “ mpy1 q ´ mpy0 q, and is also point-identified (part (c)). It follows that property (b)
must be violated, i.e. there is some c, y0 , y1 ą 0 such that mpcy1 q ´ mpcy0 q ‰ mpy1 q ´ mpy0 q.
Proposition 2 thus formalizes the sense in which it is not possible to “fix” the issues with ATEs for
log-like transformations described above by taking alternative transformations of the outcome (e.g.
?
  Y ).

3.1      Implications for settings without an extensive margin
The trilemma in Proposition 2 applies for transformations of the outcome defined at zero. To
prove Proposition 2, however, we establish an even stronger result: the only parameter satisfying
properties (a) and (b) that is point-identified over distributions for which Y is strictly positively-
valued is the ATE in logs.19 This result, which is formalized in Proposition 3 in the Appendix, has
some useful implications for settings in which the outcome is strictly positive.
       First, it implies that the ATE for any transformation of the outcome other than logpY q will
depend on the units of the outcome for at least some DGP where the outcome is strictly positive.
The scale-dependence of log-like transformations such as logp1 ` Y q or arcsinhpY q is thus not
entirely limited to settings with an extensive margin.20 We note, however, that while the ATE for
such transformations may depend on the units of the outcome even without zero-valued outcomes,
the dependence need not be arbitrarily bad in the sense of Proposition 1. Indeed, (2) shows that if
there is no extensive margin, the ATE for a log-like transformation will be approximately insensitive
to scaling once the values of Y are made large. This is intuitive, since if Y is strictly positively-
valued, the ATE for a log-like transformation will be approximately equal to the ATE in logs when
the values of Y are made large.
   Second, Proposition 3 implies that even when Y p1q and Y p0q are strictly-positively valued, the
average proportional effect θAvg% “ ErpY p1q´Y p0qq{Y p0qs is not point-identified. This parameter is
empirically relevant: For instance, Andrews and Miller (2013) show that in the Baily (1978)–Chetty
(2006) model with heterogeneous consumption responses to unemployment, the optimal level of
unemployment insurance depends on a parameter of the form θAvg% , where Y is consumption and
  18
     A minor technical complication arises from the fact that EP rgpY p1q, Y p0qs could be infinite for some P . For the
purposes of our result, it suffices to trivially define θg to be identified in this case. Alternatively, the same result
holds if part (c) is modified to impose only that θg is point-identified over all distributions in P` with finite support,
thus avoiding issues related to undefined expectations.
  19
     More precisely, the only such treatment effect is the ATE in logs or an affine tranformations thereof.
  20
     There is thus no conflict between our results and those in Thakral and Tô (2023), who note that semi-elasticities
for OLS regressions using log-like transformations may depend on the units of the outcome even when Y is strictly
positively-valued.


                                                           14
