       Of course, log utility is not well-defined when there is an extensive margin: A coherent utility
function defined with zero-valued outcomes must take a stand on the relative importance of the
intensive versus extensive margins. Recall from Section 2.1 that when using transformations like
logp1 ` yq or arcsinhpyq, the scaling of the outcome implicitly determines the weights placed on
these margins.
       Instead of implicitly weighting the margins via the scaling of Y , a more transparent approach
is to explicitly take a stand on how much one values the two margins of treatment. Of course, if
one knows that their utility is captured by U “ ErmpY qs (for a particular unit of Y , say earnings
in dollars), then the ATE for mpY q is appropriate. If one is unsure exactly of their utility function,
then a rough calibration is to specify how much one values a change in earnings from 0 to 1
relative to a percentage change in earnings for those with non-zero earnings. If, for example, one
values the extensive margin effect of moving from 0 to 1 the same as a 100x percent increase in
earnings, then one might consider setting mpyq “ logpyq for y ą 0 and mp0q “ ´x. The ATE for
this transformation can be interpreted as an approximate percentage (log point) effect, where an
increase from 0 to 1 is valued at 100x log points.28
       We emphasize that for a fixed value of x, this approach necessarily depends on the scaling of the
outcome (thus avoiding the trilemma in Proposition 2). However, this may not be so concerning
since the appropriate choice of x also depends on the units of the outcome—e.g., saying a change from
0 to 1 is worth 100x percent means something very different if 1 corresponds with one dollar versus
a million dollars. In other words, ATEs for transformations such as arcsinhpY q may be difficult to
interpret because the scaling of the outcome implicitly determines the relative importance of the
intensive and extensive margins; this approach avoids that difficulty by explicitly taking a stand
on the tradeoff between these two margins. Nevertheless, a challenge with this approach is that
researchers may have differing opinions over the appropriate choice of x (or more generally, over the
appropriate utility function).

4.3      When the goal is to understand intensive and extensive margins
Finally, we consider the case where the researcher is interested in understanding the intensive and
extensive margin effects separately. A common question in the literature on job training programs
(Card et al., 2010), for instance, is whether a program raises participants’ earnings by helping them
find a job—which would be expected only to have an extensive-margin effect—or by increasing
human capital, which would be expected to also affect the intensive margin. In such settings, it is
natural to target separate parameters for the intensive and extensive margins.
       For example, the parameter

                         θIntensive “ ErlogpY p1qq ´ logpY p0qq | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0s
  28
    Note that this transformation will generally only be sensible if the support of Y excludes p0, e´x q, since otherwise
the function mpyq is not monotone in y over the support of Y . It is common, however, to have a lower-bound on
non-zero values of the outcome; e.g., a firm cannot have between 0 and 1 employees. In our application to Sequeira
(2016) below, we normalize the minimum non-zero value of Y to 1 when applying this approach.


                                                           20
