percentage effect, since that ATT is dependent on the units in which the outcome is measured
(Proposition 1).
       In what follows, we consider alternative parameters that may be of interest when the marginal
distributions of the potential outcomes are identified for some population of interest. Such iden-
tification is obtained in RCTs or under conditional unconfoundedness (for the full population), as
well in instrumental variables settings (for the population of compliers), as these designs do not rely
on functional form assumptions for identification. If the original identification strategy relies on a
functional form assumption (e.g. parallel trends), then obtaining identification of the alternative
parameters discussed below may require different identifying assumptions. We discuss these issues
in detail in Section 5.2, where we revisit the difference-in-differences application in Sequeira (2016).

4.1      When the goal is interpretable units
We first consider the case where the researcher’s primary goal is to obtain a treatment effect pa-
rameter with easily interpretable units, such as percentages.

Normalizing the ATE in levels.               One possibility is to target the parameter

                                                       ErY p1q ´ Y p0qs
                                           θATE% “                      ,
                                                          ErY p0qs

which is the ATE in levels expressed as a percentage of the control mean. For example, if a researcher
is studying a program D meant to reduce healthcare spending Y , then θATE% is the percentage
reduction in costs from implementing the program. This parameter is point-identified and scale-
invariant, and thus has an intuitive percentage interpretation. Importantly, however, θATE% is the
percentage change in the average outcome between treatment and control, but is not an average of
individual-level percentage changes.22 That is, θATE% does not take the form EP rgpY p1q, Y p0qqs,
thus avoiding the trilemma in Proposition 2.
       We note that θATE% is consistently estimable by Poisson regression (see Gourieroux et al. (1984);
Santos Silva and Tenreyro (2006); Wooldridge (2010, Chapter 18.2)) under an appropriate identi-
fying assumption. With a randomly assigned D, for example, estimation of Y “ exppα ` βDqU
by Poisson quasi-maximum likelihood (QMLE) consistently estimates the population coefficient β,
which satisfies eβ ´ 1 “ ErY p1qs{ErY p0qs ´ 1 “ θATE% . In Section 5 below, we illustrate how θATE%
can be estimated by Poisson regression in practice in several empirical examples, including both an
RCT and DiD setting.
  We also emphasize that θATE% is influenced by treatment effects along both the intensive and
extensive margins. In particular, the numerator of θATE% is the ATE in levels. Thus, if an individual
has a treatment effect of say 1, that contributes the same to θATE% regardless of whether their
outcome changes from 0 to 1 (an extensive margin change) or 1 to 2 (an intensive margin change).
  22
    This is roughly analogous to how quantile treatment effects show changes in the quantiles of the potential outcomes
distributions, but not the quantiles of the treatment effects (without further assumptions).



                                                          17
