bounds for the average treatment effect in logs for instrument-compliers who would have positive
charcoal spending regardless of treatment status.44
         The bounds on θIntensive for instrument-compliers are r´0.565, ´0.538s (with SEs for the lower
and upper bounds of 0.072 and 0.075).45 This implies that for the instrument-compliers who would
spend on charcoal regardless of treatment status, spending decreases by 54 to 56 log points. We
note that the Lee bounds are fairly tight in this case, as tends to be the case when the extensive
margin is small. It is also worth noting that in this example, the estimated treatment effects using
arcsinhpYi q—both in terms of weekly spending in dollars and in terms of annual spending in Kenyan
shillings—fall outside of the Lee bounds, although they are fairly close to the upper bound when
using weekly spending in dollars.


6         Conclusion
It is common in empirical work to estimate ATEs for transformations such as logp1`Y q or arcsinhpY q
which are well-defined at zero and behave like logpY q for large values of Y . We show that the ATEs
for such transformations should not be interpreted as percentages, since they depend arbitrarily on
the units of the outcome when there is an extensive margin. Further, we show that any parameter
that is an average of individual-level treatment effects of the form EP rgpY p1q, Y p0qqs must be scale-
dependent if it is point-identified and well-defined at zero. We discuss several alternative approaches,
including estimating scale-invariant normalized parameters (e.g. via Poisson regression), explicitly
calibrating the value placed on the intensive versus extensive margins, and separately estimating
effects for the intensive and extensive margins (e.g. using Lee bounds). We illustrate how these
approaches can be applied in practice in three empirical applications.




    44
     The validity of the Lee (2009)-type bounds requires the “monotonicity” assumption that all instrument-compliers
who would have some charcoal consumption when not buying an efficient stove would also have some charcoal con-
sumption when buying an efficient stove, which seems reasonable. Note that this is a distinct assumption from the in-
strument monotonicity assumption needed for a LATE interpretation for instrumental variables (Imbens and Angrist,
1994), which in this context states that anyone who would buy a stove at a higher price would also buy at a lower
price.
  45
     We obtain these estimates using the procedure in Abadie (2002), as described in detail in Appendix E.


                                                         31
