                                                                ď ErlogpFY´1p1q pU qq | U P r1 ´ θAT , 1ss,   (E.1)

where θAT “ P pY p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0q, θN T “ P pY p1q “ 0, Y p0q “ 0q, and θC “ P pY p1q ą
0, Y p0q “ 0q. We estimate the bounds in (E.1) by plugging in the estimated CDFs for instrument-
compliers described above, as well as the values of θAT , θN T , θC implied by the estimated CDFs. We
approximate the expectation over U by taking the average over 100,000 uniform draws.58 Finally,
to compute the bounds on the treatment effect, we must estimate ErY p0q | Y p0q ą 0s. To do this,
we use the fact that

                            ErY p0q | Y p0q ą 0s “ ErFY´1p0q pU q | U P rθN T ` θC , 1ss.

As before, we then estimate the right-hand-side in the previous display by plugging-in the estimated
CDF for instrument-compliers, and simulating over 100,000 uniform draws. The Lee bounds for
θIntensive are then obtained by subtracting the estimate of ErY p0q | Y p0q ą 0s from the estimates
of the lower and upper bounds in (E.1). We estimate standard errors for the bounds using 1,000
draws from a non-parametric clustered bootstrap.59


F        Appendix Tables and Figures
       – Appendix Table 1 contains information on the AER papers discussed.

       – Appendix Figure 1 shows how t-statistics change in the replication exercise.

       – Appendix Table 2 shows the analogue of Table 1 for logp1 ` Y q.




  58
       We note that in finite samples, the estimated CDF F̂Y pdq pyq may be non-monotonic. Nevertheless, the inverse
F̂Y´1
    pdq puq :“ infty | F̂Y pdq pyq ě uu remains well defined.
   59
    One complication that arises is that for some draws from the bootstrap distribution, the sign of the extensive
margin can be the opposite of that in the original data. In our bootstrap procedure, we construct Lee-type bounds
assuming monotonicity in whichever direction matches the bootstrapped data. The resulting bootstrap estimates of
the bounds appear to be approximately normally distributed, but we think a formal theoretical evaluation of the
bootstrap in this setting is an interesting topic for future work.


                                                                15
