       However, if we change the units of the outcome to annual charcoal spending in Kenyan shillings,
the original currency in which charcoal spending was measured, the same specification yields an es-
timate of ´0.44. Relative to our previous applications, the change in the treatment effect estimates
is fairly small for these choices of units, due to a small estimated extensive margin of 0.01 (see
Table 1).42 Nevertheless, the fact that the treatment effects using an arcsinh-transformed outcome
depend on the units should give us pause in interpreting them as percentages. Indeed, a percentage
effect is not well-defined for someone who has non-zero spending under treatment and zero spend-
ing under the control, so an average individual-level percentage effect does not make sense if the
treatment can affect whether one has any charcoal spending.
       Berkouwer and Dean (2022) first discuss the LATE in levels, and then immediately afterwards
state that the treatment effect for the arcsinh-transformed outcome “corresponds to a 39 percent
decrease in charcoal consumption” (p. 3306). The main goal of taking the arcsinh transformation
here thus appears to be to obtain a treatment effect with a percentage interpretation. We therefore
next implement two approaches with an (approximate) percentage interpretation in this context.

Proportional LATE.             One natural approach in this context is to estimate the proportional change
in the average outcome for instrument-compliers, i.e. to estimate θATE% among the population of
instrument-compliers. Put otherwise, we can express the LATE in levels as a percentage of the
control mean for instrument-compliers. An estimate of the LATE in levels is naturally obtained
using TSLS specification (11) with Yi as the outcome, which yields an estimate of ´2.46. As
described in Abadie (2002), we can likewise obtain an estimate of the control instrument-complier
mean by using TSLS with ´pDi ´ 1q ¨ Yi as the outcome, which yields an estimate of 5.86. Putting
these together, we obtain an estimate of θATE% for instrument-compliers of ´2.46{5.86 “ ´0.42
(SE = 0.046), which suggests that average charcoal spending is 42% lower for instrument-compliers
under treatment than under control.43 If pollution is proportional to charcoal spending, then this
parameter is economically relevant as it corresponds to the percentage reduction in pollution for
instrument-compliers from gaining access to the efficient stove.

Lee bounds. Berkouwer and Dean (2022) benchmark their treatment effect estimates relative to
engineering estimates of the efficiency gains of using an efficient stove relative to a non-efficient
one. For this benchmarking exercise, it seems sensible to focus on the intensive-margin effect of the
treatment—i.e., the treatment effect for instrument-compliers who would use a non-efficient stove if
offered a high price and an efficient one if offered a low price. To do so, we can form Lee (2009)-type
  42
     We note, however, that the t-statistic for the effect on arcsinhpYi q is rather sensitive here, changing from approx-
imately 7 to 3 depending on the units.
  43
     The standard error was calculated via a non-parametric bootstrap with 1,000 draws, clustered at the respondent
level. We note that with a binary instrument, an estimate of θIntensive for instrument-compliers can be obtained
using Poisson IV regression (e.g. the ivpoisson command in Stata); see Angrist (2001). However, we are not aware
of a LATE interpretation of Poisson IV regression with a multi-valued instrument, and thus do not pursue it here.
Whether Poisson IV regression has such an interpretation with a continuous IV strikes us an interesting topic for
future work.




                                                           30
