Equation (B.1) then follows from applying this result for d “ 0, 1 and taking the difference of the
limits.

B.2        Extension to continuous treatments
Although we focus on binary treatment in the main text for simplicity, similar issues arise with
continuously distributed D. Suppose now that D can take a continuum of values on some set
D Ď R. Let Y pdq denote the potential outcome at the dose d, and P the distribution of Y p¨q.
Consider the parameter                                ż
                                             θpaq “           ωpdqEP rmpaY pdqqs,
                                                          D

which is a weighted sum of the average values of mpaY pdqq across different values of d with weights
ωpdq. For example, in an RCT with a continuous treatment, a regression of mpaY q on D yields a pa-
rameter of the form θpaq where, by the Frisch–Waugh–Lovell theorem, the weights are proportional
to pd ´ ErDsqppdq and integrate to 0.50
       We now show that θpaq can be made to have arbitrary magnitude via the choice of a when
there is an extensive margin effect. In particular, by an extensive margin effect we mean that
ş
  ωpdqP pY pdq ą 0q ‰ 0, i.e. when there is an average effect on the probability of a zero outcome,
using the same weights ωpdq that are used for θpaq. When θpaq is the regression of mpaY q on D in
an RCT, for example, ωpdqP pY pdq ą 0q ‰ 0 if the regression of 1rY ą 0s on D yields a non-zero
                      ş

coefficient.
Proposition 5. Suppose that:

   1. The function m satisfies parts 1 and 2 of Proposition 1.
                                         ş
   2. (Extensive margin effect)           D ωpdqP pY pdq ą 0q ‰ 0.

   3. (Bounded expectations) For all d, EP r| logpY pdqq| | Y pdq ą 0s ă 8.
                                                                         ş                 ş                  ş
   4. (Regularity for weights) The weights ωpdq satisfy                      D ωpdq “ 0,   D |ωpdq| ă 8 and   D |ωpdq| ¨
         EP r| logpY pdqq| | Y pdq ą 0s ă 8.

Then for every θ ˚ P p0, 8q, there exists a ą 0 such |θpaq| “ θ ˚ . In particular, θpaq is continuous
and θpaq Ñ 0 as a Ñ 0 and |θpaq| Ñ 8 as a Ñ 8.
                                  ş
Proof. Note that θp0q “               ωpdqmp0q “ 0. It thus suffices to show that θpaq is continuous for
a P r0, 8q and that |θpaq| Ñ 8 as a Ñ 8. The result then follows from the intermediate value
theorem.
       We first show continuity. Fix a P r0, 8q and a sequence an Ñ a. Let fn pdq “ ωpdqEP rmpan Y pdqqs.
We showed in the proof to Proposition 1 that EP rmpan Y pdqqs Ñ EP rmpaY pdqqs, and thus fn pdq Ñ
  50
       Here, ppdq denotes the density of D at d over the randomization distribution.




                                                                 5
