prospective employers to vouch for their skills. Individuals in the control group do not receive
test results.32 They then investigate how this treatment impacts labor market outcomes such as
employment, hours worked, and earnings. We focus here on the effects on hours worked.

Original specification and sensitivity to units. Carranza et al. (2022) estimate the effect of
their randomized treatment on the inverse hyperbolic sine of weekly hours worked. Formally, they
estimate the OLS regression specification

                                     arcsinhpYi q “ β0 ` Di β1 ` Xi1 γ ` ui ,                                     (3)

where Yi is average weekly hours worked for unit i, Di is an indicator for whether unit i was in
the treatment group, and Xi is a vector of controls.33 Their estimate of the ATE (β̂1 ) is 0.201
(see column (1) in Table 3). They interpret this as a 20% change in hours: “Certification increases
average weekly hours worked, coded as zero for nonemployed candidates, by 20 percent” (p. 3560).

                                    arcsinh(weekly hrs)       arcsinh(yearly hrs)      arcsinh(FTEs)
           Treatment                      0.201                      0.417                   0.031
                                         (0.052)                    (0.096)                 (0.012)
           Units of outcome:            Weekly Hrs                 Yearly Hrs                FTEs

      Table 3: Estimates using arcsinhpY q with different units of Y in Carranza et al. (2022)

Note: This table shows estimates of the average treatment effect in Carranza et al. (2022) on the inverse hyperbolic
sine of hours worked, estimated using (3). In the first column, the outcome is the inverse hyperbolic sine of weekly
hours, as in the original paper. The remaining columns use the inverse hyperbolic sine of annualized hours (weekly
hours times 52) or the inverse hyperbolic sine of the number of full-time equivalents worked (weekly hours divided by
40). Standard errors are clustered at the assessment date (the unit of treatment assignment) as in the original paper.


    However, the results in Section 2 suggest that the estimate of β1 should not be interpreted as a
percentage effect, since it depends on the units of the outcome. To illustrate this, in columns (2)
and (3) we re-estimate specification (3) with Yi redefined to be (a) yearly hours worked, i.e. weekly
hours times 52, or (b) the number of full-time equivalents (FTE) worked, i.e. weekly hours divided
by 40. The results change quite substantially depending on the units used, with an estimate of
0.417 using yearly hours and 0.031 using FTEs. We therefore turn next to alternative approaches
with a percentage interpretation in this setting.

Percentage changes in the average.                 The average number of (weekly) hours worked was 9.84
in the treated group and 8.85 in the control group. A simple summary of the treatment effect is
  32
     Some individuals are also assigned to a “placebo” arm in which they are provided the test results but the form
does not include the individual’s name, and thus cannot credibly be shared with employers. We focus on the effect
of the main treatment relative to the pure control group.
  33
     Carranza et al. (2022) include individuals receiving the “placebo” treatment in the sample and add an indicator
for receiving the placebo treatment in Xi . We follow the same practice, although the results are similar if units
receiving the placebo treatment are dropped.



                                                         22
