θATE% considered in Section 4.1.53
       We note, however, that if one were instead to impose (C.4) with the assumption that ErlogpU pdqq |
Ds “ 0, then the regression of logpY q on D would be consistent for β, whereas Poisson regression
would generally be inconsistent for β. Indeed, under the potential outcomes model in (C.5) with
the assumption that ErlogpU pdqqs “ 0, we have that β “ ErlogpY p1qq ´ logpY p0qqs, the ATE in
logs.54
       This discussion highlights that whether or not an estimator is consistent depends on the specifi-
cation of the target parameter. Our results help to illuminate what parameters can be consistently
estimated by enumerating the properties that identified causal parameters can (or cannot) have.

C.3       Tobit models
An alternative structural approach is to explicitly model the extensive margin, a classic exam-
ple of which is the Tobit model (Tobin, 1958).                   Following the discussion of Tobit models in
Angrist and Pischke (2009), suppose there exist latent potential outcomes Y ˚ pdq “ µd ` U , where
U „ N p0, σ 2 q and D KK U . The observed potential outcome Y pdq is then the latent potential
outcome truncated at zero, Y pdq “ maxpY ˚ pdq, 0q. We note that in this model, the treatment has
a constant additive effect of µ1 ´ µ0 on the latent outcome, and the latent potential outcomes are
assumed to be normally distributed.
    Thanks to the parametric assumptions, the unknown parameters µ1 , µ0 , σ 2 are identified and
estimable via, e.g., maximum likelihood. As a result, the entire joint distribution of potential
outcomes is identified, since this depends only on pµ1 , µ0 , σq. This implies, in turn, that all of the
possible target parameters considered in Section 4 are point-identified. For example, under this
model
                Erlog Y pdq | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0s “ E rlog pµd ` U q | U ą ´µ1 , U ą ´µ0 s ,

where the right-hand side can be computed numerically since U „ N p0, σ 2 q. Thus, the intensive
margin treatment effect in logs, θIntensive , is actually point-identified under the Tobit model.55
       It is worth nothing that unlike some of the models considered above, the Tobit model is consistent
with a nonzero extensive margin. However, the assumptions of normal errors and constant treatment
effects on the latent index are restrictive. As discussed in Section 4, imposing these assumptions
is not necessary for identification if one is ultimately interested in, say, ErY p1q ´ Y p0qs{ErY p0qs,
and one can obtain bounds on the intensive margin effect without imposing these assumptions.56
Moreover, as Angrist and Pischke (2009) and Angrist (2001) point out, it is often not clear what
the economic meaning of the latent potential outcome Y ˚ pdq is—if Y pdq is earnings, for example,
  53
     Bellégo et al. (2022) also consider (C.4), but consider the more general class of identifying restrictions of the form
ErD logpU ` δqs “ 0, where δ is a tuning parameter.
  54
     Note that the assumption that ErlogpU qs “ 0 implicitly implies that U ą 0, and thus Y ą 0.
  55
     Likewise, the intensive margin treatment effect in levels, ErY p1q ´ Y p0q | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0s is simply µ1 ´ µ0 .
  56
     We note that the assumptions of the Tobit model imply (but are strictly stronger than) the assumption of rank
preservation of the potential outcomes. However, rank preservation alone suffices to point identify Erlog Y p1q ´
log Y p0q | Y p1q ą 0, Y p0q ą 0s.



                                                            12
