                                                           Logs with zeros? Some problems and solutions∗
                                                                                     Jiafeng Chen
arXiv:2212.06080v7 [econ.EM] 15 Nov 2023




                                                                               Harvard Business School
                                                                      Department of Economics, Harvard University
                                                                                    Jonathan Roth
                                                                       Department of Economics, Brown University

                                                                                       November 15, 2023



                                                                                             Abstract

                                                     When studying an outcome Y that is weakly-positive but can equal zero (e.g. earnings),
                                                 researchers frequently estimate an average treatment effect (ATE) for a “log-like” transformation
                                                 that behaves like logpY q for large Y but is defined at zero (e.g. logp1`Y q, arcsinhpY q). We argue
                                                 that ATEs for log-like transformations should not be interpreted as approximating percentage
                                                 effects, since unlike a percentage, they depend on the units of the outcome. In fact, we show
                                                 that if the treatment affects the extensive margin, one can obtain a treatment effect of any
                                                 magnitude simply by re-scaling the units of Y before taking the log-like transformation. This
                                                 arbitrary unit-dependence arises because an individual-level percentage effect is not well-defined
                                                 for individuals whose outcome changes from zero to non-zero when receiving treatment, and the
                                                 units of the outcome implicitly determine how much weight the ATE for a log-like transformation
                                                 places on the extensive margin. We further establish a trilemma: when the outcome can equal
                                                 zero, there is no treatment effect parameter that is an average of individual-level treatment
                                                 effects, unit-invariant, and point-identified. We discuss several alternative approaches that may
                                                 be sensible in settings with an intensive and extensive margin, including (i) expressing the ATE
                                                 in levels as a percentage (e.g. using Poisson regression), (ii) explicitly calibrating the value
                                                 placed on the intensive and extensive margins, and (iii) estimating separate effects for the two
                                                 margins (e.g. using Lee bounds). We illustrate these approaches in three empirical applications.




                                             ∗
                                               An earlier draft of this paper was titled “Log-like? Identified ATEs defined with zero-valued outcomes are
                                           (arbitrarily) scale-dependent.” We thank Isaiah Andrews, Kirill Borusyak, Jonathan Cohn, Amy Finkelstein, Edward
                                           Glaeser, Nick Hagerty, Peter Hull, Jetson Leder-Luis, Erzo Luttmer, Giovanni Mellace, John Mullahy, Edward
                                           Norton, David Ritzwoller, Brad Ross, Pedro Sant’Anna, Jesse Shapiro, Neil Thakral, Casey Wichman, and seminar
                                           participants at BU, Georgetown, Harvard/MIT, Southern Denmark University, Vanderbilt, Stanford, UC-Irvine,
                                           UCLA, UCSD, and the SEA annual conference for helpful comments and suggestions. Bruno Lagomarsino provided
                                           superb research assistance.


                                                                                                  1
