18           ILO Working Paper 140




                       Question                                     Answer Options

         8             To what extent can your job be replaced      Will not be replaced (0%) |-----------------slider----------------|Will be
                       by Generative AI (e.g. ChatGPT) in the       completely replaced (100%); I don't know
                       next 5 years?

     In its main section, the survey moves to the assessment of respondents’ perception of tasks’ au-
     tomation potential. Each respondent is presented with a random selection of 35 tasks from their
     occupational group at 1-digit ISCO-08 level, as previously described in the sample selection pro-
     cess (Section 4.2). For each task, respondents are asked to evaluate the susceptibility of the task
     to automation by generative AI on a scale from 0 to 100, with 0 indicating "not automatable"
     and 100 indicating "fully automatable".6 In addition to scoring tasks for automation potential,
     respondents are asked to indicate whether they personally perform a similar task in their cur-
     rent job by ticking a box next to each task. This allows for the comparison of GenAI’s perceived
     impact on tasks that are only present in respondents’ occupational group, with those directly
     relevant to the respondents' current work.


         XX Text Box 1. Sample Question for Task Automation Assessment


             Below is a list of 35 tasks performed by people in different occupations. Please rate how
             much you think artificial intelligence can automate each of the tasks. Use the slider to in-
             dicate your opinion on a scale from 0 to 100, where 0 means no potential for automation,
             and 100 means full potential for automation.

             Occupation: Actor

             Task 1: Developing one's own artistic concept of a role

             Slider scale (0-100):

             | 0 - No potential for automation using GenAI | ------------ Slider ------------ | 100 - Full poten-
             tial for automation using GenAI

             | I don't know

             Do you perform this or a similar task in your current job?

             ●● Yes
             ●● No


     3.4. Survey design limitations
     The survey is designed to capture insights from individuals currently employed in various oc-
     cupational categories of the 1-digit ISCO-08 framework. This means that tasks of managers are
     assessed by individuals working as managers, tasks of professionals are assessed by profes-
     sionals, etc. The subsequent data analysis explores the differences among individuals based on
     their attitudes about technology, knowledge of AI and other parameters that are captured in
     the core questions (Table A3).



     6
             Respondents could also choose « don’t know » as an answer.
