25     ILO Working Paper 140




     XX Figure 10. Scoring as a function of familiarity with GenAI and the scored task – distribution of individual
        scores




     One way to address this variation in scoring would be to apply corrective weights to responses,
     giving greater influence to respondent profiles likely to have more relevant expertise. For exam-
     ple, one could assign more weight to respondents reporting greater familiarity with GenAI or
     frequent usage or prioritize scores from individuals who perform similar tasks in their daily work.
     However, in our sample, this would introduce significant limitations. For 91.5% of the tasks, re-
     spondents did not report performing a similar task in their work – even when the task belonged
     to the same 1-digit occupational group as their current job. This is not surprising. For instance,
     within the “Professionals” group alone, the representative sample consisted of 368 tasks drawn
     from a pool of 8,715 tasks (Table 2), making exact task matching unlikely.

     Moreover, adjusting for beliefs or usage would require strong theoretical assumptions about
     what constitutes “credible” scoring. For example, a respondent who believes their profession will
     be completely transformed by GenAI in the next five years may be highly informed, or may be
     expressing anxiety, speculation, or dystopian fears. Without richer data to distinguish between
     these interpretations, applying corrective weights risks introducing new biases.

     Given the relatively small size of these specific subgroups in our dataset, we refrain from imple-
     menting such adjustments in the current analysis to avoid overfitting or compromising credibil-
     ity. Instead, we flag this as an important area for future survey design, particularly in capturing
     respondent expertise and task familiarity more systematically.

     For the present study, we treat the survey as a starting point, designed to capture a broad spec-
     trum of perspectives reflecting varying degrees of familiarity with both tasks and GenAI. In
     many cases, a respondent’s understanding of the task itself may be more influential than their
     understanding of the technology, especially for concrete physical tasks (e.g. trimming flowers,
     assembling mechanical parts). Accordingly, we rely on mean scores across all respondents to re-
     flect the collective judgment of a diverse sample grounded in workplace experience. To enhance
