46     ILO Working Paper 140




     XX   Conclusion

     In this paper, we have presented the methodology used to develop a new global index of occu-
     pational exposure to GenAI, as well as new estimates of the global effects on employment. We
     build on the approach developed by the ILO in 2023, but with several notable refinements. First,
     by beginning our analysis with the Polish 6-digit occupational structure, we expand by ten-fold
     the amount of detailed task information available for the analysis of task automation. In addi-
     tion, using a representative sample from the 29,753 tasks in the Polish occupational classification
     system and a survey of 1,640 people in Poland, we captured the opinions of each 1-digit ISCO-08
     group on the potential for task automation in the job categories in which they are currently em-
     ployed (52,558 data points). We then compared this input with an expert survey and conducted
     subsequent rounds of revisions among a smaller international expert group for the tasks with
     the highest degree of disagreement. Based on this process, we built a repository of knowledge
     with adjusted task scores that goes beyond Poland’s national specificities and reflects a broader
     consensus on the task automation potential of current GenAI tools.

     We subsequently used this repository to develop an AI assistant that could predict scores for
     these tasks based on this additional information as well as the technical documentation of ISCO-
     08. These scores update the original set of scores produced by the ILO in 2023 (Gmyrek et al.,
     2023). The use of a verified “knowledge base” presents an important methodological improve-
     ment, which greatly enhances stability of our predictions across independent LLMs (see Section
     6), and which can be used to produce similar score predictions for other occupational classifi-
     cation systems that contain job-specific tasks. In addition, we make all task-level scores publicly
     available, which also makes it possible for researchers to organize the occupational exposure in
     different ways than our proposed framework of exposure gradients.

     The new global index presented in this paper is generic, due to the nature of ISCO-08 and the
     structure of tasks associated with occupations in this framework. Its definite strength – similar
     to ISCO-08 – is that it provides a common global denominator and a direct link to national labour
     forces surveys held in the ILO harmonized micro data repository, which relies on the same clas-
     sification of occupational structures. Even though all countries do not use ISCO-08, mappings
     of the national systems to this common international standard are available. This eliminates the
     need for crosswalks from other national systems (e.g. O*NET), which involves tenuous assump-
     tions about the similarity of detailed occupations in the technologically advanced context of the
     USA to other countries, especially non-HICs. The simple and comparable character of our ISCO-
     08 based index enables direct production of global, regional and income-based employment es-
     timates, based on the same statistical modelling techniques that are used by the ILO for other
     global figures (see Section 11).

     Our 2025 scores are presented in a revised occupational classification system, adopting a frame-
     work of four progressively increasing exposure gradients, that better highlights the importance
     of potential AI exposure and task variability for determining possible outcomes. We produced a
     new set of global estimates of GenAI exposure based on this revised classification.

     The new index maintains many of the headline findings of the 2023 methodology. Clerical oc-
     cupations continue to have the highest exposure levels, albeit with some important downward
     revisions to individual tasks scores. Such occupations include data entry clerks, typists, account-
     ing, bookkeeping clerks and administrative secretaries. Additionally, some occupations – such
     as financial analysts, and web and multimedia developers (gradient 4), as well as bank tellers,
     translators, applications programmers, investment advisers (gradient 3) – have increased their
