47     ILO Working Paper 140




     levels of exposure, highlighting the expanding abilities of GenAI technology to potentially auto-
     mate more specialized tasks in professional and technical roles.

     Overall, the revised global employment estimates of GenAI exposure are lower than in our 2023
     paper, though still, one in four jobs globally (24%) has some degree of exposure, and one in
     three jobs in high-income countries. What is particularly striking is the continued association of
     gender with occupations with higher levels of exposure, especially in higher-income countries.
     Compared to 7.8% of female employment and 2.9% of male employment in high-income coun-
     tries classified as having high automation potential in 2023, the current study increases these
     figures to 9.6% for females and 3.5% for males, respectively.

     Notwithstanding these findings, we stress that such exposure does not imply the immediate au-
     tomation of an entire occupation, but rather the potential for a large share of its current tasks to
     be performed using this technology. Whether this leads to the disappearance of an occupation
     or workforce replacement is a more complex question – one that will depend on the initial deci-
     sion to adopt the technology, but also the extent to which individuals in these occupations are
     given opportunities to learn to work with these technologies and adapt to the evolving nature
     of their tasks. As argued by numerous economists, the key to unlocking the productivity bene-
     fits of GenAI lies not in the search of outright labour savings, but in the extent to which human
     expertise can be complemented with new technological capacities to reshape occupations and
     generate additional value-added (Acemoglu, 2024; Autor, 2024).

     Ensuring such positive synergies necessitates an approach to technology’s adoption at the work-
     place that is human-centered. With one in four workers across the world in an occupation with
     some degree of GenAI exposure, there is need to ensure that the transition is managed through
     social dialogue, both to minimize “technological unemployment” and the hardship associated
     with it, but also to ensure that for the majority who remain employed, the technology is imple-
     mented in a way that that supports them in carrying out their jobs. Workers know their jobs best
     and can play an important role in the design, adaptation and use of the technology at the work-
     place, to the benefit of both working conditions and productivity.
