10       ILO Working Paper 140




     employed in each ISCO-08 1-digit group and from expert opinions. As the final step, we provide
     updated global, regional and income-based estimates of employment that has the potential to
     be transformed by Gen AI technology.

     Our study specifically targets GenAI tools, isolating the effects of this recent family of AI from
     broader AI applications, such as the use of Machine Learning (ML) algorithms or image recog-
     nition in industrial production. There are several considerations that justify such selective focus.
     First, we respond to the growing need for a research tool that could provide a better picture of
     GenAI’s potential impact on national labour markets, given the growing societal angst concern-
     ing this technology and the recent reports about increasing levels of adoption of GenAI at work
     (Bick et al., 2024; Faverio and Tyson, 2022; Grampp et al., 2023; Maison & Partners and ThinkTank,
     2024; Pew Research Center, 2023; Rutgers, 2024). Second, while several indicators of occupation-
     al exposure to broader AI technologies are available to researchers (Nurski and Vansteenkiste,
     2024), very few tools allow for a more detailed focus on GenAI (Nurski and Ruer, 2024). A new,
     more precise exposure index enables a closer alignment of the academic work on digital econ-
     omy and labour with the significant interest in the GenAI technology in the media and in the
     public debate.1 Third, the methodological blueprint provided by our research can be quite flexi-
     bly expanded to other types of AI in the future or focused more narrowly on specific subsets of
     digital technologies and sectors of their application.

     This paper is the first in a series of upcoming publications based on ILO and NASK cooperation
     that strive to improve the methodology for assessing employment effects of AI, but also to doc-
     ument in detail the methods used, including the survey, expert verification process and the con-
     struction of the AI model used for predictions. Subsequent papers will present an assessment of
     the potential impact of GenAI on the Polish labour market, based on more detailed occupation
     and task-level data and using a mix of quantitative and qualitative methods. All publications will
     include the methodological blueprints and technical details of both the quantitative and quali-
     tative components, including survey questionnaires and interview guidelines. By making these
     tools openly accessible, we hope to contribute to the development of an improved method for
     assessing potential impact of GenAI on jobs and to stimulate more detailed national-level stud-
     ies, including in lower- and middle-income countries.




     1
         For example, Felten et al. (2023) provided an updated version of their original exposure index from 2021, adjusting for the abilities of
         GenAI tools. As shown in their paper, the adjustment does not result in a major shift in occupations exposure and still makes it im-
         possible to assess the abilities of this new technology in a selective manner. See Gmyrek et al. (2024) for a more detailed comparison
         of these scores.
