14         ILO Working Paper 140




     XX    3 Assessment of tasks’ automation potential



     3.1. Initial Algorithmic predictions
     As the first step, we conducted a purely algorithmic assessment of potential exposure to automa-
     tion for each task in the Polish 6-digit system, relying on three advanced LLMs available on the
     market at the end of 2024: GPT-4, GPT-4o and Gemini Flash 1.5. The method relies on the approach
     previously used by GBB (2023), with a sequential API call devised to assign a score ranging from
     0 to 1 for each individual task, where 0 means the task cannot be automated and 1 means the
     task could be fully automated with GenAI technology (the task can be conducted without partic-
     ipation of a human operator).4 The LLM is provided with information on the occupation to which
     the task pertains in ISCO-08 and requested to produce a justification for each predicted score.


         XX Figure 2. Distribution of synthetic automation scores from 3 LLMs, by ISCO-08 1-digit




     The overall distribution of these synthetic automation scores is generally consistent with scores
     based on ISCO-08 documentation (GBB, 2023; Gmyrek, Winkler and Garganta, 2024) and O*NET
     (Elondou, 2023; Felten, 2023): the highest exposure to GenAI is typically observed among groups
     with the largest share of tasks of cognitive nature and it declines with tasks of physical nature,
     which are more prominent among occupational groups 4-9 (Figure 2). The largest density of
     high automation scores is observed among clerical workers and is stable across the three LLMs.
     In other groups, we observe some important differences in the LLMs’ predictions. In particular,
     Gemini Flash 1.5 seems to provide a bimodal scoring, with most scores falling either below 0.25
     or above 0.6. The other two models provide a wider range of scores, but still with important di-
     vergences, which makes it difficult to judge which model one should follow.5 Therefore, we do
     not examine these distributions in greater detail but proceed directly to improvements that could
     enhance coherence and stability of our predictions, regardless of the LLM applied.



     4
           In GBB (2023), the scores and justifications were assessed for consistency and stability of predictions over time, with the written justi-
           fications reviewed by humans. Tasks with scores above 0.8 (high possibility of automation) were transformed into embeddings, with
           a semantic clustering algorithm applied to identify the major groups of such tasks, which are subsequently reviewed by humans.
     5
           A comparison to GBB (2023) scores suggests the closest alignment with GPT-4o synthetic scoring of the Polish tasks’ database.
