44     ILO Working Paper 140




     disparities are even more pronounced in High-Income Countries, where 34% of total employ-
     ment falls within one of the four exposure gradients, with 17.3% in gradients 3 and 4. However,
     when disaggregated by gender, 28% of male employment is exposed, with only 3.5% in gradi-
     ent 4, compared to 41% of female employment, with 14.4% in gradient 3 and 9.6% in gradient 4.

     Income-based differences in exposure are striking, with High-Income Countries showing the
     highest share of employment in one of the four exposure gradients (34%). The total share of ex-
     posed employment declines significantly as income levels decrease, reaching just 11% in Low-
     Income Countries (LICs). Lower income levels also reduce gender disparities in exposure, primar-
     ily due to the lower concentration of occupations in the highest exposure gradients (gradients 3
     and 4). Gender disparities are also more pronounced in wealthier regions, particularly in Europe
     and Central Asia, where 39% of female employment falls into one of the four exposure gradients
     compared to 26% for men. These patterns reflect both occupational structures and the extent
     to which GenAI-exposed roles, such as clerical, financial, and customer service jobs, are concen-
     trated in higher-income countries.

     These new estimates are consistent with those given in 2023, but more refined. The previous
     version attributed 2.3% of global employment to the “automation” category, one percentage
     point lower than the 3.3% assigned to gradient 4. In addition, the 2023 estimate attributed 13%
     of employment as subject to “augmentation” and an additional 16.2% of employment in “the
     big unknown”. The combined employment share for Gradients 1-3 for the world in the current
     analysis is 20.5%, 9 percentage points lower than combined shares of augmentation and “the
     big unknown” (29.2%) reported in 2023. The 2023 findings that women are more affected than
     men, and that the percentage of employment affected increases as countries’ income level in-
     creases, still hold.

     It is important to stress that these new estimates reflect “exposure” to GenAI and not the actu-
     al impact on employment. As in 2023, the 2025 estimates represent the upper threshold of the
     percentage of employment that could be affected if GenAI technology were fully implemented.
     Infrastructure constraints (electricity, broadband), insufficient digital skills, the cost of technology,
     and inherent operational difficulties associated with the technology are just some of the barri-
     ers to full adoption. An important aspect also concerns the institutional and societal acceptance
     of automating tasks and occupations – even when technically feasible. For instance, few con-
     sumers may be inclined to watch evening news presented by avatars. Similarly, financial insti-
     tutions might hesitate to fully delegate decisions such as mortgage approvals or business plan
     evaluations to AI systems, preferring to retain human judgement, oversight and accountability.

     Indeed, the results indicate that few jobs consist of tasks that are fully automatable with current
     GenAI technology; nearly all occupations have some tasks that require human input. Gradients
     1-3 comprise occupations where the automation of specific tasks is limited, and some degree of
     task variability exists. As such, the “bundle of tasks” that constitutes occupations acts as a buffer
     against full automation. However, this does not mean that demand for these occupations will re-
     main stable, as the efficiencies gained from introducing technology may mean that fewer work-
     ers are needed. If efforts are not made to help such jobs evolve with GenAI and integrate new
     tasks, even partial automation of existing tasks could lead to a decline in overall job demand in
     occupations found in higher exposure gradients. In addition, in some cases, the remaining set
     of non-automated tasks may result in jobs that are no longer humanly sustainable or desira-
     ble, thereby limiting the feasibility of adopting imbalanced technological solutions (Tegtmeier
     et al., 2022).
