12         ILO Working Paper 140




     XX     2 Tasks and occupations in the 6-digit system in
            Poland


     Within Europe, Poland is quite representative of the larger group of Central and Eastern European
     (CEE) countries, albeit with a significantly larger population (38 million) than most of its peers.
     Globally, the CEE ranks between the high-income advanced economies and the emerging econ-
     omies of the Global South. With respect to access to the internet, Poland ranks below UK and
     Germany, but higher than Japan and France. Thus, for assessing the potential of task automa-
     tion, it seems reasonable to assume that Poland is representative of the upper threshold of au-
     tomation potential, due to high availability of digital equipment and widespread internet access.


         XX Figure 1. Income- and population-based similarities (A) and access to the internet (B) across countries




     The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy (MOL) in Poland maintains a system of occu-
     pational classifications, with task and job descriptions that are regularly updated.2 The system
     is used by Statistics Poland (GUS) and other state institutions for labor market analysis. At the
     most detailed, 6-digit level, this framework contains 2541 occupations and 29,753 correspond-
     ing tasks (Table 1). Since the system is publicly available online, we initially designed a scraping
     bot that crawled through individual occupational pages and downloaded job descriptions and
     corresponding tasks into a structured data frame.3 The extracted content was subsequently
     cross verified against a tabular occupational classification provided by the Ministry. The Polish
     classification system is compatible with the hierarchical structure of ISCO-08, which means that
     we could easily append an additional mapping of occupations from 1 to 4-digit level (Table 1).




     2
            The occupational classification database (KZiS) was first published in 2014 and has been regularly updated, with the latest validation
            on 1 January 2025. The classification was introduced by the Regulation of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the classifica-
            tion of occupations and specializations for labor market purposes and its scope of application, dated 7 August 2014 (Dz.U. z 2018 r.
            poz. 227, z 2021 r. poz. 2285, z 2022 r. poz. 853, Dz.U. z 2024 r. poz. 1372). Additionally, the Ministry publishes a mapping to ISCO-08.
            See: https://psz.praca.gov.pl/rynek-pracy/bazy-danych/klasyfikacja-zawodow-i-specjalnosci.
     3
            Web scraping was primarily conducted to demonstrate the potential of acquiring non-traditional data from publicly accessible sourc-
            es, in contexts where such activity is not restricted by server settings or legal regulations. The process adhered to responsible data
            collection practices, including appropriate frequency settings to avoid overloading servers.
