11     ILO Working Paper 140




     XX   1 Task-based approaches to automation in the
          literature


     Central to the study of technology on work is the insight that jobs are a “bundle of tasks” (Autor,
     2015). As such, task automation might, or might not lead to job automation, depending on the
     importance of a particular task to an occupation. Analyses of employment effects of automation
     that use the task-based approach, including this study, attempt to capture two central consider-
     ations: (i) the ability of a specific technology to automate a given task and (ii) the character of ex-
     isting occupations in the labour market, based on the detailed tasks performed by these occupa-
     tions. By modelling the intersection of these two dimensions, one arrives at a range of possible
     projections of how such technology could interact with occupational tasks, leading either to their
     full automation through technology-driven substitution, or to a transformation, through partial
     automation and human-machine complementarity. While the task-based framework certainly has
     limitations, recent academic literature shows the analytical advantages of this method for mod-
     elling employment and labour market impacts (Acemoglu et al., 2024; Nurski and Ruer, 2024).

     Research on AI and tasks has shown important improvements in methods and scope in recent
     years, which includes using AI tools for research purposes. In one of the early papers on Machine
     Learning (ML) and jobs, Frey and Osborne, (2013) fed the opinions of a group of IT technology
     experts into an ML algorithm to develop occupational-level projections of automation poten-
     tial for the US job market. The emergence of GenAI APIs has simplified the possibility of com-
     bining human expertise and algorithmic capacities for research purposes. Relying on this idea,
     Eloundou et al. (2023) demonstrated a close alignment of GPT-4 predictions with a survey of 70
     AI experts on the potential of automating occupational tasks with LLMs, and subsequently built
     on this feature to develop synthetic automation scores for the US market.

     Most task-based studies are focussed on the US, due to the very detailed nature of the O*NET
     database, as well as its public accessibility. This typically forces researchers interested in the
     global picture or other countries and regions to base their analysis on the strong assumption
     of similarity of local economic and labour effects to those projected in the US context. In reality,
     occupational tasks can vary significantly among individual countries, which poses a particular
     challenge in developing countries. As such, working with tasks in the ISCO-08 system offers a
     useful and simple common denominator for projections across different countries, regions and
     income groups. Our method combines the strengths of this global framework with a significantly
     more detailed national classification system in Poland, which provides a detailed list of occupa-
     tions and tasks, based on the latest labour market data. This helps us establish a starting point
     for modelling interaction of GenAI’s abilities with up-to-date tasks and occupations in a setting
     located between the countries with highest incomes and the emerging economies (Figure 1).
     Using a combination of GenAI tools, we subsequently transfer this knowledge back to the tasks
     in ISCO-08 system.
