19     ILO Working Paper 140




     The advantage of this approach is that the tasks are assessed by those familiar with the work
     from their own professional context. On the downside, this survey design means that the sample
     may not represent the entire working population, and interpretability of opinions on the automa-
     tion potential is limited to comparisons within each 1-digit group. We also expect an imbalance
     of understanding and experience with tasks and GenAI across different occupational groups, as
     managers or professionals are likely to know more about AI than elementary workers, where-
     as the latter are likely to understand better the nature of elementary workers’ tasks, but might
     have less familiarity with GenAI tools.

     We mitigate these negative effects in several ways. First, to equilibrate the level of understand-
     ing among participants, a prompt about current abilities of GenAI is shown in the introduction
     of the second part of the survey (see Text Box 2 and full survey questionnaire in the Appendix).
     Second, we run a survey among the ILO, NASK and MOL experts on a smaller sample of tasks,
     drawn from across all ISCO-08 groups, and compare these results to the results of main survey
     respondents (Section 5). In cases of drastic discrepancies, we consult with the expert group and
     manually establish what seems to be the most reasonable score.


     XX Text Box 2. Introductory prompt for survey respondents


        We have a short piece of information for you about Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI).
        In our study, we want to distinguish GenAI from artificial intelligence (AI).

        AI allows you to make decisions based on data (e.g. what product to offer you next in
        an online store, recognize car license plates at the entrance to the parking lot and raise
        the barrier)

        GenAI can generate new content, e.g. images, text, speech. The most popular tool is
        ChatGPT, which can answer questions, write emails, prepare an application to the office,
        create reports, summarize a specified text (e.g. an article, book).

        What can GenAI do?

        ●● Write a text, "pretending" to be a specific person, e.g. an official, poet, financial analyst;
        ●● Prepare translations between languages, e.g. from Polish to English;
        ●● Convert written text into human speech ("read" text in a given language);
        ●● Program - change specified tasks into computer language code, e.g. Python, HTML;
        ●● Generate an image, e.g. a photo, based on a given description, or recognize and de-
           scribe an image (e.g. what is in the photo).


     3.5. Survey of Task Automation Potential

     3.5.1. Sample properties
     The main survey sample consists of 57,400 observations and 1,640 unique respondents. Among
     these, 105 participants responded with 'Don't know' to most questions, providing less than 50%
     of the required task rankings. Due to limited engagement, these participants were removed from
     the analysis as they were deemed insufficiently credible. The excluded group includes a variety
     of demographic and occupational profiles, which were carefully reviewed to ensure that their
