are unlikely to explain the specific effect identified by our empirical design.


5.4.1   Interest Rates

A natural concern is that other contemporaneous shocks may have disproportionately af-
fected labor demand for junior workers in GenAI-adopting firms relative to non-adopters.
The first such concern is that GenAI adopters may be more sensitive to monetary policy
cycles and thus may have reacted more strongly to the 2022–2023 interest rate hikes. How-
ever, several pieces of evidence suggest that this mechanism does not drive our findings.
First, if monetary policy shocks had played a role, we would expect to see effects in the
pre-trend coefficients of Figure 7, yet none are observed. Second, even if interest rate
changes disproportionately affected industries where adopters are concentrated or had
stronger impacts on junior roles, these dynamics should be absorbed by the industry-by-
seniority-by-time fixed effects in the triple-difference estimates in Section 5.2.
   Third, we directly test for this channel following Ottonello and Winberry (2020). We
use the high-frequency identified monetary-policy surprises of Jarocinski and Karadi
(2020), aggregated to the quarterly level as the in-quarter sum of monthly surprises, and
estimate the differential-sensitivity regression

                  log Li,t+1 − log Li,t = αi + γt + β Adopteri × εm
                                                                    
                                                                  t + ηi,t ,              (14)

on the pre-2022 firm-quarter panel (t ∈ 2015Q1–2021Q3), to see if our adopter firms were
disproportionately responsive to previous monetary policy shocks. The outcome is the
forward one-quarter log change in total or junior employment, αi and γt are firm and
year-quarter fixed effects. Under the monetary-policy confounder story, β < 0: adopters
should contract more than non-adopters in the quarter following a tightening shock.
   Table 3 reports the estimates. For total employment, the interaction is small and of the
opposite sign to what the confounder story would predict ( β̂ = 0.046, s.e. 0.020): adopters
expand slightly more, not less, than non-adopters in the quarter following a tightening.
For junior employment, the interaction is small and statistically insignificant ( β̂ = 0.018,
s.e. 0.025). Either way, there is no evidence that adopters contract differentially after iden-
tified monetary-policy shocks. Appendix A.23 reports lag-augmented local-projection
impulse responses (Jordà, 2005; Montiel Olea and Plagborg-Møller, 2021) across horizons




                                              37
