marked over the one-year horizon.
   For the Task-by-Task Index, the average exposure increases substantially to 0.56, compared to
0.38 in the baseline. This highlights the fact that exposure to individual tasks does not linearly
translate into the same exposure to job replacement. In other words, some occupations have high
task-exposure but are embedded in occupation-specific contexts that mitigate overall exposure.
Additionally, as previously mentioned, the disaggregated approach does not account for how the
interrelation of tasks may result in different levels of exposure to replacement. However, it is
worth noting that this index, despite having higher values, exhibits a high correlation with the
baseline index (0.89).
   The specific LLM Index estimations suggest that although a significant source of exposure
emerges from the enhanced capabilities of language model technologies (with an index value of
0.20), it accounts for only 54% of the general AI index. Thus, the model considers broader potential
applications of AI in the baseline scenario. The overall correlation with the GENOE is modest, at
about 0.47. It is also noteworthy that the LLM Index is more correlated with some of the existing
indexes of AI exposure, such as Felten et al. (2021)’s AIOE and Pizzinelli et al. (2023)’s C-AIOE.
This may reflect the fact that these indexes also capture the specific impacts of language model
technologies and their applications.
   Exposure to non-AI technologies is also considerable, with an average index value of about
0.34. Interestingly, most occupations exposed to AI are also exposed to other types of technologies,
as suggested by the high correlation of the Non-AI Index with the baseline (0.95). Additionally,
this index is most correlated with the Frey and Osborne (2017) measure of exposure, probably
because that index relates more closely to the broader exposure to computerization, including
non-AI innovations.
   The final ”Only AI” Index allows us to determine which occupations will experience a higher
increase in exposure to technology specifically due to AI. The average value of this index is low,
at 0.04, but it reaches up to 0.39 for the highest values. Occupations with the highest values
include clerical workers and data-intensive and writing-intensive roles such as translators, credit
analysts, insurance underwriters, customer service representatives, paralegals, loan officers, and
proofreaders.




                                                16
