regarding the specific skills and contexts required for AI integration. Additionally, the GENOE
index considers the complex interplay of tasks within occupations and integrating the ethical and
social contexts organically.
   Another contribution of our paper is the novel use of large language models to generate syn-
thetic assessments that aim to replicate and extend expert assessments. Many studies rely on
expert surveys or interviews to build analytical tools like indexes, including in the labor automa-
tion area (Frey and Osborne, 2017; Felten et al., 2021; Tolan et al., 2021). Synthetic AI surveys offer
several advantages. They can efficiently process and synthesize vast amounts of information from
diverse sources very rapidly, enabling a larger volume of questions to be addressed in a shorter
time frame. Additionally, synthetic AI surveys can be easily scaled to include extensive sample
sizes or repeated iterations, allowing greater granularity of the collected data.
   While recent research has begun to explore the use of AI in workforce analysis, our methodol-
ogy offers a novel approach in this evolving field. For example, Eloundou et al. (2024) combined
human expert insights with AI-generated assessments to evaluate AI’s potential for enhancing
task efficiency across occupations. Our work is a step forward in this approach by exclusively and
systematically using ChatGPT to build the entire index through multiple iterations and varying
model parameters.
   To validate the accuracy of this methodology, we replicated the well-known exposure index of
Felten et al. (2021), replacing mTurk surveys with synthetic AI surveys. Our approach successfully
replicated Felten’s AI Occupational Exposure Index (AIOE) with a correlation of 0.99, suggesting
our methodology is robust and reliable for these types of tasks and providing evidence of another
area where AI-driven automation is highly feasible.
   The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. After this introduction, Section 2 details
our data sources and methodology used to build the GENOE index. Section 3 presents the GENOE
index, including its key findings and implications. This section also includes several robustness
checks to validate our results and replicates other human-like expert assessment using our novel
synthetic survey methodology. Section 4 explores how the index can be used in practical appli-
cations, analyzing occupational exposure in the U.S. and Mexico labor market. Finally, Section
5 discusses some considerations and limitations of our research, while Section 6 concludes with
implications and directions for future research.


                                  2   DATA AND METHODOLOGY


We draw data from the O*NET database, which contains detailed descriptions and attributes for
1,016 occupations in the U.S. labor market under the O*NET-SOC 2019 classification. Occupa-
tional characterizations are built and continuously updated from surveys and input from multiple
sources, including job analysts, incumbent workers, and industry experts. O*NET attributes—
such as abilities, skills, knowledge, and tasks—are divided into six major domains: Worker Char-
acteristics, Worker Requirements, Experience Requirements, Occupational Requirements, Work-

                                                   4
