                                               1   INTRODUCTION


The concern that more autonomous instruments and machines would render work obsolete has
recurred throughout history. From Aristotle speculating on the obsolescence of human labor if
instruments could work on their own to Keynes’ famous prediction of technological unemploy-
ment,2 this concern arises whenever new technologies emerge and has particularly grown with re-
cent advances in artificial intelligence (AI). Growing progress in natural language processing and
generative models like OpenAI’s GPT have significantly improved machines’ abilities to mimic
many human cognitive capabilities, such as understanding and generating human-like text, mak-
ing predictions, and performing image and video recognition (Dwivedi et al., 2023). Furthermore,
the convergence of AI with robotics signals the emergence of highly autonomous systems capable
of executing more complex physical tasks, potentially reshaping the landscape of both cognitive
and manual labor.
    This paper aims to identify which occupations are most exposed to the replacement due to AI
adoption, developing a new Generated Index of Occupational Exposure (GENOE). Our approach
uses a novel methodological approach that we call “synthetic AI surveys.” This methodology
leverages the extensive knowledge and advanced analytical capabilities of large language mod-
els (LLMs) to conduct expert-like assessments, provide estimations, and offer insights on a wide
range of areas. We specifically applied this approach to estimate the exposure of various tasks
and occupations to recent and anticipated advancements in AI-related technologies. The GENOE
index measures the likelihood of job replacement by AI at the occupational level, based on the
tasks typically performed in each role. We defined three time horizons for replacement: one year,
five years, and 10 years. This accounts for short-term scenarios based on current AI capabilities as
well as medium-term and long-term scenarios anticipating future technological advancements.
    Our findings reveal that the average occupational exposure to AI is 0.28 within one year, in-
creasing to 0.38 and 0.44 over the five- and 10-year horizons, respectively.3 An exposure score of
0.28 suggests that, on average, occupations have a 28% likelihood of potentially being impacted
by AI within the next year. To contextualize these results, we calibrated the GENOE index with
labor market data from the United States and Mexico. Results show that 43 million and 16 million
jobs are exposed to AI in the United States and Mexico, respectively, over the one-year horizon, in-
creasing to 60 million and 22 million over five years, and 70 million and 26 million over ten years.
Extrapolating these findings to Latin America and the Caribbean, we estimate that approximately
84 million jobs are exposed to AI within one year, rising to 114 million in 5 years, and 132 million
in 10 years. Assuming this average exposure is applicable to worldwide labor markets, it implies
that approximately 980 million, 1.33 billion, and 1.54 billion jobs are exposed to AI over the one-,
five-, and 10-year horizons, respectively. It is crucial to note that this does not directly translate
   2 See Aristotle (350 B.C.E./1998), Politics and Keynes (1930).
   3 GENOE estimates are available online for use by academics, policymakers, and businesses to inform future re-

search and strategic decision-making GENOE. Data can be found in this online repository.



                                                           1
