  As for the performance of the Poisson PML estimator, the results are very encouraging.
In fact, when no rounding error is present, its performance is reasonably good in all cases.
Moreover, although some loss of eﬃciency is noticeable as one moves away from Case 2,
in which it is an optimal estimator, the biases of the PPML are always small.19 Moreover,
the results obtained with rounded data suggest that the Poisson based PML estimator
is relatively robust to this form of measurement error of the dependent variable. Indeed,
the bias introduced by the rounding-oﬀ errors in the dependent variable is relatively small
and, in some cases, it even compensates the bias found in the first set of experiments.
Therefore, because it is simple to implement and reliable under a wide variety of situations,
the Poisson PML estimator has the essential characteristics needed to make it the new
work-horse for the estimation of constant-elasticity models.
  Obviously, the sign and magnitude of the bias of the estimators studied here depend on
the particular specification considered. Therefore, the results of these experiments cannot
serve as an indicator of what can be expected in other situations. However, it is clear
that, apart from the Poisson PML method, all estimators will often be very misleading.
  These experiments were also used to study the finite sample performance of the Gauss-
Newton regression (GNR) test for the adequacy of the Poisson PML based on (13) and
of the Park test advocated by Manning and Mullahy (2001), which, as explained above,
is only valid to check for the adequacy of the estimator based on the log-linear model.20
Given that the Poisson PML estimator is the only estimator with a reasonable behavior
under all the cases considered, these tests were performed using residuals and estimates of
µ (xi β) from the Poisson regression. Table 2 contains the rejection frequencies of the null
hypothesis at the 5 percent nominal level for both tests in the four cases considered in the
two sets of experiments. In this table the rejection frequencies under the null hypothesis
are given in bold.
  19
       These results are in line with those reported by Manning and Mullahy (2001).
  20
       To illustrate the pitfalls of the procedure suggested by Manning and Mullahy (2001) we note that the
means of the estimates of λ1 obtained using (11) in cases 1, 2 and 3 (without measurement error) were
0.58955, 1.29821 and 1.98705, whereas the true values of λ1 in these cases are, respectively, 0, 1 and 2.




                                                     21
