purpose of the study is to gauge the magnitude of these biases. Naturally, the log-linear
model cannot be estimated in these conditions because the dependent variable equals zero
for some observations. Following what is the usual practice in these circumstances, the
truncated OLS estimation of the log-linear model was performed dropping the observa-
tions for which the dependent variable equals zero. Notice that the observations discarded
with this procedure are exactly the same that are discarded by OLS (y > 0.5) in the first
set of experiments. Therefore, this estimator is also denoted OLS (y > 0.5).
  The results of the two sets of experiments are summarized in Table 1, which displays the
biases and standard errors of the diﬀerent estimators of β obtained with 10, 000 replicas
of the simulation procedure described above. Only results for β 1 and β 2 are presented as
these are generally the parameters of interest.
  As expected, OLS only performs well in Case 3. In all other cases this estimator is clearly
inadequate because, despite its low dispersion, it is often badly biased. Moreover, the sign
and magnitude of the bias vary considerably. Therefore, even when the dependent variable
is strictly positive, estimation of constant elasticity models using the log-linearized model
cannot generally be recommended. As for the modifications of the log-linearized model
designed to deal with the zeros of the dependent variable, ET-Tobit, OLS (y + 1) and OLS
(y > 0.5), their performance is also very disappointing. These results clearly emphasize
the need to use adequate methods to deal with the zeros in the data and raise serious
doubts about the validity of the results obtained using the traditional estimators based on
the log-linear model. Overall, except under very special circumstances, estimation based
on the log-linear model cannot be recommended.
  One remarkable result of this set of experiments is the extremely poor performance of
the NLS estimator. Indeed, when the heteroskedasticity is more severe (cases 3 and 4)
this estimator, despite being consistent, leads to very poor results because of its erratic
behavior.18 Therefore, it is clear that the loss of eﬃciency caused by some of the forms
of heteroskedasticity considered in these experiments is strong enough to render this
estimator useless in practice.
 18
      Manning and Mullahy (2001) report similar results.



                                                   19
