observations were partially compensated by rounded-up ones, the overall eﬀect of these
errors would be relatively minor. However, the rounding down is more likely to occur for
small or distant countries and, therefore, the probability of rounding down will depend
on the value of the covariates, leading to the inconsistency of the estimators. Finally, the
zeros can just be missing observations which are wrongly recorded as zero. This problem
is more likely to occur when small countries are considered and, again, measurement error
will depend on the covariates, leading to inconsistency.


2.2 The Anderson-van Wincoop Gravity Equation

Anderson and van Wincoop (2003) argue that the traditional gravity equation is not
correctly specified as it does not take into account multilateral resistance terms. One
of the solutions for this problem that is suggested by these authors is to augment the
traditional gravity equation with exporter and importer fixed eﬀects, leading to

                                   Tij = α0 Yiα1 Yjα2 Dij
                                                       α3 θi θj
                                                          e e ,                          (4)

where α0 , α1 , α2 , and α3 are the elasticities to be estimated and θi and θj indicate the
exporter and importer fixed eﬀects.
  Their model also yields the prediction that α1 = α2 = 1, which leads to the unit-
income-elasticity model
                                      Tij = α0 Yi Yj Dijα3 eθi eθj

whose stochastic version has the form

                        E(Tij |Yi , Yj , Dij , θi , θj ) = α0 Yi Yj Dijα3 eθi eθj .      (5)

  As before, log-linearization of (5) raises the problem of how to treat zero-value obser-
vations. Moreover, given that (5) is a multiplicative model, it is also subject to the biases
caused by log-linearization in the presence of heteroskedasticity. Naturally, the presence
of the individual eﬀects may reduce the severity of this problem, but whether or not that
happens is an empirical issue.


                                                    7
