OLS, instead, generates a substantial eﬀect: It predicts that trade between two contiguous
countries is 37 percent larger than trade between countries that do not share a border.25
  We control for remoteness to account for the hypothesis that larger distances to all
other countries might increase bilateral trade between two countries.26 Poisson regressions
support this hypothesis, whereas OLS estimates suggest that only exporter’s remoteness
increases bilateral flows between two given countries. Access to water appears to be
important for trade flows, according to Poisson regressions; the negative coeﬃcients on
the land-locked dummies can be interpreted as an indication that ocean transportation is
significantly cheaper. In contrast, OLS results suggest that whether or not the exporter
is landlocked does not influence trade flows, whereas a landlocked importer experiences
lower trade. (These asymmetries in the eﬀects of remoteness and access to water for
importers and exporters are hard to interpret.) We also explore the role of colonial
heritage, obtaining, as before, significant discrepancies: Poisson indicates that colonial ties
play no role in determining trade flows, once a dummy variable for common language is
introduced. OLS regressions, instead, generate a sizeable eﬀect (countries with a common
colonial past trade almost 45 percent more than other pairs). Language is statistically
and economically significant under both estimation procedures.
  Strikingly, in the traditional gravity equation, preferential-trade agreements play a much
smaller – although still substantial – role according to Poisson regressions. OLS esti-
mates suggest that preferential-trade agreements rise expected bilateral trade by 63 per-
cent, whereas Poisson estimates indicate an average enhancement eﬀect below 20 percent.
  Preferential-trade agreements might also cause trade diversion; if this is the case, the co-
eﬃcient on the trade-agreement dummy will not reflect the net eﬀect of trade agreements.
To account for the possibility of diversion, we include an additional dummy, “openness,”
similar to that used by Frankel (1997). This dummy takes the value 1 whenever one (or
  25
     The formula to compute this eﬀect is (ebi − 1) × 100%, where bi is the estimated coeﬃcient.
  26
     To illustrate the role of remoteness, consider two pairs of countries, (i, j) and (k, l), and assume that
the distance between the countries in each pair is the same Dij = Dkl , however, i and j are closer to
other countries. In this case, the most remote countries, k and l, will tend to trade more between each
other because they do not have alternative trading partners. See Deardoﬀ (1998).


                                                     25
