Finally, the sixth column shows the Poisson results for the whole sample (including zero-
trade pairs).
  The first point to notice is that PPML-estimated coeﬃcients are remarkably similar
using both the whole sample and the positive-trade subsample.22 However, most coef-
ficients diﬀer — oftentimes significantly — from those obtained using OLS. This suggests
that in this case, heteroskedasticity (rather than truncation) is responsible for the diﬀer-
ences between PPML results and those of OLS using only the observations with positive
trade. Further evidence on the importance of the heteroskedasticity is provided by the
two-degrees-of-freedom special case of White’s test for heteroskedasticity (see Wooldridge,
2002, p. 127), which leads to a test statistic of 476.6 and to a p-value of zero. That is,
the null hypothesis of homoskedastic errors is unequivocally rejected.
  Poisson estimates reveal that the coeﬃcients on importer’s and exporter’s GDPs in
the traditional equation are not, as generally believed, close to 1. The estimated GDP
elasticities are just above 0.7 (s.e. = 0.03). OLS generates significantly larger estimates,
especially on exporter’s GDP (0.94, s.e. = 0.01). Although all these results are conditional
on the particular specification used,23 it is worth pointing out that unit-income elasticities
in the simple gravity framework are at odds with the observation that the trade-to-GDP
ratio decreases with total GDP, or, in other words, that smaller countries tend to be more
open to international trade.24
  The role of geographical distance as trade deterrent is significantly larger under OLS;
the estimated elasticity is −1.17 (s.e. = 0.03), whereas the Poisson estimate is −0.78
(s.e. = 0.06). This lower estimate suggests a smaller role for transport costs in the
determination of trade patterns. Furthermore, Poisson estimates indicate that, after
controlling for bilateral distance, sharing a border does not influence trade flows, while
  22
       The reason why truncation has little eﬀect in this case is that observations with zero trade correspond
to pairs for which the estimated value of trade is close to zero. Therefore, the corresponding residuals
are also close to zero and their elimination from the sample has little eﬀect.
  23
     This result holds when one looks at the subsample of OECD countries. It is also robust to the
exclusion of GDP per capita from the regressions.
  24
     Note also that PPML predicts almost equal coeﬃcients for the GDPs of exporters and importers.



                                                      24
