from Feenstra et al. (1997). Data on real GDP per capita and population come from
the World Bank’s World Development Indicators (2002). Data on location and dum-
mies indicating contiguity, common language (oﬃcial and second languages), colonial ties
(direct and indirect links), and access to water are constructed from the CIA’s World
Factbook. The data on language and colonial links are presented on Tables A2 and A3 in
the appendix.21 Bilateral distance is computed using the great circle distance algorithm
provided by Andrew Gray (2001). Remoteness — or relative distance — is calculated as the
(log of) GDP-weighted average distance to all other countries (see Wei, 1996). Finally,
information on preferential-trade agreements comes from Frankel (1997), complemented
with data from the World Trade Organization. The list of preferential trade agreements
(and stronger forms of trade agreements) considered in the analysis is displayed in Table
A4 in the Appendix. Table A5 in the Appendix provides a description of the variables
and displays the summary statistics.


5.2 Results

5.2.1 The Traditional Gravity Equation

Table 3 presents the estimation outcomes resulting from the various techniques for the
traditional gravity equation. The first column reports OLS estimates using the logarithm
of trade as the dependent variable; as noted before, this regression leaves out pairs of
countries with zero bilateral trade (only 9, 613 country pairs, or 52 percent of the sample,
exhibit positive import flows).
  The second column reports the OLS estimates using ln(1 + Tij ) as dependent variable,
as a way of dealing with zeroes. The third column presents Tobit estimates based on
Eaton and Tamura (1994). The fourth column shows the results of standard NLS. The
fifth column reports Poisson estimates using only the subsample of positive-trade pairs.
  21
       Alternative estimates based on Boisso and Ferrantino (1997)’s index of language similarity are avail-
able, at request, from the authors.




                                                      23
