  To sum up, whether or not fixed eﬀects are used in the specification of the model,
we find strong evidence that estimation methods based on the log-linearization of the
gravity equation suﬀer from severe misspecification, which hinders the interpretation of
the results. NLS is also generally unreliable. In contrast, the models estimated by PPML
show no signs of misspecification and, in general, do not produce the puzzling results
generated by the other methods.29



6. Conclusions
In this paper, we argue that the standard empirical methods used to estimate gravity
equations are inappropriate. The basic problem is that log-linearization (or, indeed, any
non-linear transformation) of the empirical model in the presence of heteroskedasticity
leads to inconsistent estimates. This is because the expected value of the logarithm of a
random variable depends on higher-order moments of its distribution. Therefore, if the
errors are heteroskedastic, the transformed errors will be generally correlated with the
covariates. An additional problem of log-linearization is that it is incompatible with the
existence of zeroes in trade data, which led to several unsatisfactory solutions, including
truncation of the sample (that is, elimination of zero-trade pairs) and further non-linear
transformations of the dependent variable.
  29
       It is worth noting that the large diﬀerences in estimates among the various methods persist when we
look at a smaller subsample of countries that account for most of world trade and, quite likely, have better
data. More specifically, we run similar regressions for the subsample of 63 countries included in Frankel
(1997)’s study. These countries accounted for almost 90 percent of the world trade reported to the United
Nations in 1992. One advantage of this subsample is that the number of zeroes is significantly reduced.
Heteroskedasticity, however, is still a problem: The null hypothesis of homoskedasticity is rejected in
both the traditional and the fixed-eﬀects gravity equations. As before, PPML generates a smaller role
for distance and common language than OLS, and, unlike OLS, PPML predicts no role for colonial ties.
In line with the findings documented in Frankel (1997), the OLS estimated coeﬃcient on the free-trade-
agreement dummy is negative in both specifications of the gravity equation, whereas PPML predicts a
positive and significant eﬀect (slightly bigger than that found for the whole sample. This results are
available — at request — from the authors.



                                                     31
