cannot be used without further information on the distribution of the errors. In principle,
this problem can be tackled by estimating the multiplicative model using a consistent
estimator, and then obtaining the appropriate weights estimating the skedastic function
non-parametrically, as suggested by Delgado (1992) and Delgado and Kniesner (1997).
However, this nonparametric generalized least squares estimator is rather cumbersome
to implement, especially if the model has a large number of regressors. Moreover, the
choice of the first round estimator is an open question as the NLS estimator may be
a poor starting point due to its considerable ineﬃciency. Therefore, the nonparametric
generalized least squares estimator is not appropriate to use as a work-horse for routine
estimation of multiplicative models.10 Indeed, what is needed is an estimator that is
consistent and reasonably eﬃcient under a wide range of heteroskedasticity patterns and
is also simple to implement.
  A possible way of obtaining an estimator that is more eﬃcient than the standard NLS
without the need to use nonparametric regression is to follow McCullagh and Nelder
(1989) and estimate the parameters of interest using a pseudo-maximum likelihood es-
timator based on some assumption on the functional form of V [yi |x].11 Among the
many possible specifications, the hypothesis that the conditional variance is propor-
tional to the conditional mean is particularly appealing. Indeed, under this assumption
E [yi |x] = exp (xi β) ∝ V [yi |x], and β can be estimated by solving the following set of first
order conditions:
                                     n h
                                     X          ³ ´i
                                        yi − exp xi β̃ xi = 0.                                        (9)
                                      i=1

  Comparing equations (8) and (9), it is clear that, unlike the NLS estimator, which is
a PML estimator obtained assuming that V [yi |x] is constant, the PML estimator based
on (9) gives the same weight to all observations, rather than emphasizing those for which
  10
       A nonparametric generalized least squares estimator can also be used to estimate linear models in
presence of heteroskedasticity of unknown form (Robinson, 1987). However, despite having been proposed
more than 15 years ago, this estimator has never been adopted as a standard tool by empirical researchers,
who generally prefer the simplicity of the ineﬃcient OLS, with an appropriate covariance matrix.
 11
    See also Manning and Mullahy (2001). A related estimator is proposed by Papke and Wooldridge
(1996) for the estimation of models for fractional data.


                                                    12
