parameters. We view this level of generality and flexibility as one of the main advantages of our proposal.
   We provide sufficient conditions related to treatment anticipation behavior and conditional parallel
trends under which these group-time average treatment effects are nonparametrically point-identified.
A unique feature of our framework is that it shows how researchers can flexibly incorporate covariates
into the staggered DiD setup with multiple groups and multiple periods. This is particularly important
in applications in which differences in observed characteristics create non-parallel outcome dynamics
between different groups – in this case, unconditional DiD strategies are generally not appropriate to
recover sensible causal parameters of interest (Heckman et al., 1997, 1998; Abadie, 2005). We propose
three different types of DiD estimands in staggered treatment adoption setups: one based on outcome
regressions (Heckman et al., 1997, 1998), one based on inverse probability weighting (Abadie, 2005),
and one based on doubly-robust methods (Sant’Anna and Zhao, 2020). We provide versions of these
estimands both for the case with panel data and for the case with repeated cross sections data. To the
best of our knowledge, this paper is the first to show how one can allow for covariate-specific trends across
groups in DiD setups with variation in treatment timing. Our results also highlight that, in practice, one
can rely on different types of parallel trends assumptions and allow some types of treatment anticipation
behavior; our proposed estimands explicitly reflect these assumptions.
   Our framework acknowledges that in some applications there may be many group-time average treat-
ment effects and researchers may want to aggregate them into different summary causal effect measures.
This characterizes the aggregation step of the analysis. We provide ways to aggregate the potentially
large number of group-time average treatment effects into a variety of intuitive summary parameters and
discuss specific aggregation schemes that can be used to highlight different sources of treatment effect
heterogeneity across groups and time periods. In particular, we consider aggregation schemes that deliver
a single overall treatment effect parameter with similarities to the ATT in the two period and two group
case as well as partial aggregations that highlight heterogeneity along certain dimensions such as (a) how
average treatment effects vary with length of exposure to the treatment (event-study-type estimands); (b)
how average treatment effects vary across treatment groups; and (c) how cumulative average treatment
effects evolve over calendar time. We also provide a formal discussion of the costs and benefits of balanc-
ing the sample in “event time” when analyzing dynamic treatment effects. Overall, our setup makes it
clear that, in general, the “best” aggregation scheme is application-specific as it depends on the type of
question one wants to answer.
   Given that our identification results are constructive, we propose easy-to-use plug-in type (parametric)
estimators for the causal parameters of interest. Although the outcome regression, inverse probability
weighting and doubly-robust estimands are equivalent from the identification point of view, they suggest
different types of DiD estimators one can use in practice. Here, we note that using doubly-robust
estimators can be particularly attractive as they rely on less stringent modeling conditions than the
outcome regression and the inverse probability weighting procedures.
   In order to conduct asymptotically valid inference, we justify the use of a computationally conve-
nient multiplier-type bootstrap procedure. This approach can be used to obtain simultaneous confidence
bands for the group-time average treatment effects. Unlike commonly used pointwise confidence bands,
our simultaneous confidence bands asymptotically cover the entire path of the group-time average treat-
ment effects with fixed probability and take into account the dependency across different group-time

                                                     3
