to the case with repeated cross sections data and this case is developed in Appendix B. Here, we note
that Assumption 2 allows us to view all potential outcomes as random. Furthermore, it does not impose
restrictions between potential outcomes and treatment allocation, nor does it restrict the time series
dependence of the observed random variables. On the other hand, Assumption 2 imposes that each
unit i is randomly drawn from a large population of interest. For an alternative design-based inference
approach, see Athey and Imbens (2018).
   Henceforth, to keep the notation more concise, we will suppress the unit index i in our notation.

2.2      The Group-Time Average Treatment Effect Parameter
Given that different potential outcomes cannot be observed for the same unit at the same time, researchers
often focus on identifying and estimating some average causal effects. For instance, in the canonical DiD
setup with two time periods, the most popular treatment effect parameter of interest is the average
treatment effect on the treated, denoted by6

                                           AT T = E[Y2 (2) − Y2 (0)|G2 = 1].

In this paper, we consider a natural generalization of the AT T that is suitable to setups with multiple
treatment groups and multiple time periods. More precisely, we use the average treatment effect for units
who are members of a particular group g at a particular time period t, denoted by

                                         AT T (g, t) = E[Yt (g) − Yt (0)|Gg = 1],

as the main building block of our framework. We call this causal parameter the group-time average
treatment effect.
   Note that the AT T (g, t) does not impose any restriction on treatment effect heterogeneity across
groups or across time. Thus, focusing on the family of AT T (g, t)’s allow us to analyze how average
treatment effects vary across different dimensions in a unified manner. For instance, by fixing a group g
and varying time t, one is able to highlight how average treatment effects evolve over time for that specific
group. By doing this for different groups, we can have a better understanding about how treatment effect
dynamics vary across groups. In addition, as we discuss in Section 3, one can build on the AT T (g, t)’s
to form more aggregated causal parameters that are constructed to answer specific questions like: (a)
What was the average effect of participating in the treatment across all groups that participated in the
treatment by time period T ? (b) Are average treatment effects heterogeneous across groups? (c) How do
average treatment effects vary by length of exposure to the treatment? (d) How do cumulative average
treatment effects evolve over calendar time? We view this level of generality and flexibility as one of the
main advantages of our framework that first focuses on the family of AT T (g, t)’s.

2.3      Identifying Assumptions
In order to identify the AT T (g, t) and their functionals, we impose the following assumptions.


   6
       Existence of expectations is assumed throughout.


                                                            7
