that are potentially associated with the outcome evolution of Y (0) during post-treatment periods. We ex-
plicitly rule out incorporating post-treatment covariates as they can potentially be affected by the treatment;
see, e.g., Wooldridge (2005b), for a related discussion under the unconfoundedness setup.


3    Summarizing Group-Time Average Treatment Effects
The previous section shows that we can identify the AT T (g, t)’s by restricting treatment anticipation
behavior and imposing a conditional parallel trends assumption. In many applications, the AT T (g, t)’s
can be the ultimate causal parameters of interest. They can be used to highlight treatment effect hetero-
geneity across different groups g, at different points in time t, and across different lengths of treatment
exposure, e = t − g. In other situations, however, researchers may want to combine these different
AT T (g, t)’s to form more aggregated causal parameters. For instance, if the number of groups and time
periods is relatively large, it may be challenging to interpret many group-time average treatment effects.
    In this section, we consider different aggregation schemes for the AT T (g, t)’s that allow researchers
to form a variety of summary measures of the causal effects of a given policy. Our aggregation schemes
are of the form
                                              T
                                             XX
                                       θ=              w (g, t) · AT T (g, t),                           (3.1)
                                             g∈G t=2

where w (g, t) are carefully-chosen (known or estimable) weighting functions specified by the researcher
such that θ can be used to address a well-posed empirical/policy question. Difference choices of w (g, t)
allows researchers to highlight different types of treatment effect heterogeneity. We pay particular at-
tention to aggregations that result in a single overall treatment effect summary parameter as well as to
aggregations related to understanding dynamic effects as is commonly done in event-study analysis. Of
course, many other aggregated parameters of the type (3.1) can be easily constructed following our frame-
work. We illustrate this point by also summarizing heterogeneity with respect to group or by calendar
time.
    Before proceeding with the discussion on how to construct these different aggregated parameters, it is
worth revisiting the two most popular treatment effect summary measures used by practitioners in DiD
setups. These are based on the “static” and “dynamic” two-way fixed effects (TWFE) linear regression
specifications

                          Yi,t = αt + αg + βDi,t + i,t ,                                                (3.2)
                                              −2
                                              X                          L
                                                                         X
                          Yi,t = αt + αg +                       e
                                                    δeanticip · Di,t +               e
                                                                               βe · Di,t + vi,t ,        (3.3)
                                             e=−K                        e=0

respectively, where αt is a time fixed effect, αg is a group fixed effect, i,t and vi,t are error terms,
 e = 1 {t − G = e} is an an indicator for unit i being e periods away from initial treatment at time
Di,t         i
t, and K and L are positive constants. The parameter of interest in the static TWFE specification is
β, which, in applications, is typically interpreted as an overall effect of participating in the treatment
across groups and time periods. In the dynamic TWFE specification, practitioners usually focus on the
βe , e ≥ 0, and these parameters are typically interpreted as measuring the effect of participating in the


                                                          13
