      b (g, t) are estimators for w (g, t) such that for all g ∈ G and t = 2, . . . , T ,
where w
                                                                       n
                               √                              1 X w
                                      b (g, t) − w (g, t)) = √
                                   n (w                          ξg,t (Wi ) + op (1) ,
                                                               n
                                                                      i=1

                                 w (W)0 finite and positive definite. Estimators based on the sample
       w               w            
with E ξgt (W) = 0 and E ξgt (W)ξgt
analogue of the weights discussed in Section 3 satisfy this condition.
    Let
                                T                                                                         
                                                        dr,nev
                                                               (Wi ; κ∗,nev
                               XX
                  lw (Wi ) =                w (g, t) · ψg,t,0         g,t   ) + ξ w
                                                                                  g,t (W i ) · AT T (g, t)   ,
                               g∈G t=2
       dr,nev
where ψg,t,δ  are as defined in (4.4).
    The following result follows immediately from Theorem 2, and can be used to conduct asymptotically
valid inference for the summary causal parameters θ.

Corollary 2. Under the assumptions of Theorem 2,
                                                                 n
                                        √                1 X w
                                            n(θ̂ − θ) = √        l (Wi ) + op (1)
                                                          n
                                                             i=1
                                                                 h       i
                                                      d
                                                      → N 0, E lw (W )2
                                                      −

    Corollary 2 implies that one can construct standard errors andh confidence
                                                                           i   intervals for summary
treatment effect parameters based on a consistent estimator of E lw (W )2 or by using a bootstrap
procedure like the one in Algorithm 1. The main advantage of using the bootstrap procedure akin
to Algorithm 1 is that inference procedures would be robust against multiple-testing problems. This
                                                      bal (e; e0 ), θ (g̃), and θ t̃ , as practitioners would
                                                                                    
is particularly attractive when considering θes (e), θes             sel         c
probably analyze how these parameters differ across event-times e, groups g̃, and calendar-time t̃.

Remark 13. As discussed in Remark 10, the validity of the “cluster-robust” multiplier bootstrap procedure
relies on the number of clusters being “large.” In some applications such a condition may be more plausible
when analyzing the aggregated parameter θ than when analyzing the AT T (g, t) themselves.


5    The Effect of Minimum Wage Policy on Teen Employment
In this section, we illustrate the empirical relevance of our proposed methods. To do this, we apply our
methods to study the effect of the minimum wage on teen employment. The main goal of this section
is to compare results arising from using a TWFE specification (as is most common in applications) to
results coming from our proposed method. We think that this comparison is important in order to get
a sense of whether the theoretical limitations of TWFE discussed in recent work end up translating into
meaningful differences in applications. Moreover, one might expect that understanding the effect of a
minimum wage change on employment is a challenging case for TWFE as the effect of the minimum wage
may be dynamic (Meer and West (2016)) and the timing of minimum wage changes varies across states.
Unlike TWFE, the approach that we have proposed in the current paper is robust to these challenges.



                                                               26
