1    Introduction
Difference-in-Differences (DiD) has become one of the most popular research designs used to evaluate
causal effects of policy interventions. In its canonical format, there are two time periods and two groups:
in the first period no one is treated, and in the second period some units are treated (the treated group),
and some units are not (the comparison group). If, in the absence of treatment, the average outcomes
for treated and comparison groups would have followed parallel paths over time (which is the so-called
parallel trends assumption), one can estimate the average treatment effect for the treated subpopulation
(ATT) by comparing the average change in outcomes experienced by the treated group to the average
change in outcomes experienced by the comparison group. Methodological extensions of DiD methods
often focus on this standard two periods, two groups setup; see, e.g., Heckman et al. (1997, 1998), Abadie
(2005), Athey and Imbens (2006), Qin and Zhang (2008), Bonhomme and Sauder (2011), de Chaisemartin
and D’Haultfœuille (2017), Botosaru and Gutierrez (2018), Callaway et al. (2018), and Sant’Anna and
Zhao (2020).1
    Many DiD empirical applications, however, deviate from the canonical DiD setup and have more than
two time periods and variation in treatment timing. In this article, we provide a unified framework for
average treatment effects in DiD setups with multiple time periods, variation in treatment timing, and
when the parallel trends assumption holds potentially only after conditioning on observed covariates. We
concentrate our attention on DiD with staggered adoption, i.e., to DiD setups such that once units are
treated, they remain treated in the following periods.
    The core of our proposal relies on separating the DiD analysis into three separate steps: (i) identifi-
cation of policy-relevant disaggregated causal parameters; (ii) aggregation of these parameters to form
summary measures of the causal effects; and (iii) estimation and inference about these different target
parameters. Our approach allows for estimation and inference on interpretable causal parameters al-
lowing for arbitrary treatment effect heterogeneity and dynamic effects, thereby completely avoiding the
issues of interpreting results of standard two-way fixed effects (TWFE) regressions as causal effects in
DiD setups as pointed out by Borusyak and Jaravel (2017), de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020),
Goodman-Bacon (2019), Sun and Abraham (2020), and Athey and Imbens (2018). In addition, it adds
transparency and objectivity to the analysis (Rubin (2007, 2008)), and allows researchers to exploit a
variety of estimation methods to answer different questions of interest.
    The identification step of the analysis provides a blueprint for the other steps. In this paper, we pay
particular attention to the disaggregated causal parameter that we call the group-time average treatment
effect, i.e., the average treatment effect for group g at time t, where a “group” is defined by the time period
when units are first treated. In the canonical DiD setup with two periods and two groups, these parameters
reduce to the ATT which is typically the parameter of interest in that setup. An attractive feature of the
group-time average treatment effect parameters is that they do not directly restrict heterogeneity with
respect to observed covariates, the period in which units are first treated, or the evolution of treatment
effects over time. As a consequence, these easy-to-interpret causal parameters can be directly used for
learning about treatment effect heterogeneity, and/or to construct many other more aggregated causal

    1
      See Section 6 of Athey and Imbens (2006) and Theorem S1 in de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2017) for notable
exceptions that cover multiple periods and multiple groups.


                                                          2
