on the event study type of aggregation. Third, we make use of simultaneous inference procedures that
explicitly account for potential multiple-testing problems; Sun and Abraham (2020) focuses on pointwise
inference. On the other hand, we do not have any results highlighting the pitfalls associated with using
TWFE specifications with leads and lags of treatment indicators to conduct causal inference; these are
unique to Sun and Abraham (2020).
    We also note that Athey and Imbens (2018) considers a staggered treatment adoption setup similar
to ours. However, the starting point of Athey and Imbens (2018) is an assumption that the treatment
adoption date is fully randomized which is stronger than our parallel trends assumptions. We also note
that Athey and Imbens (2018) abstracts away from the important role played by covariates in the DiD
analysis and does not consider aggregation schemes to summarize treatment effect heterogeneity like
we do. On the other hand, we stress that the main focus of their paper is on providing design-based
inference procedures for staggered DiD setups with random treatment dates. Their design-based inference
procedures complement our sampling-based inference procedures.

    Organization of the paper: The remainder of this article is organized as follows. Section 2 presents
our main identification results. We discuss our different aggregation schemes in Section 3. Estimation
and inference procedures for the treatment effects of interest are presented in Section 4. We revisit the
effect of minimum wage on employment in Section 5. Section 6 concludes. Proofs as well as additional
methodological results are reported in the Appendix. In the Supplementary Appendix, we present proofs
for the results when only repeated cross-sections data is available, provide additional details about the
empirical application, and present a small scale Monte Carlo simulation to illustrate the finite sample
properties of our proposed estimators.2


2       Identification
2.1     Setup
We first introduce the notation we use throughout the article. We consider the case with T periods and
denote a particular time period by t where t = 1, . . . , T . In a canonical DiD setup, T = 2 and no one
is treated in period t = 1. Let Di,t be a binary variable equal to one if unit i is treated in period t and
equal to zero otherwise. We make the following assumption about the treatment process:

Assumption 1 (Irreversibility of Treatment). D1 = 0 almost surely (a.s.). For t = 2, . . . , T ,

                                          Dt−1 = 1 implies that Dt = 1 a.s..

    Assumption 1 states that no one is treated at time t = 1, and that once a unit becomes treated,
that unit will remain treated in the next period.3 This assumption is also called staggered treatment


    2
     Supplementary Appendix is available at https://pedrohcgs.github.io/files/Callaway_SantAnna_2020_supp.pdf.
    3
     In applications, it can be the case that some units are already treated by the first time period. In our case, we would
drop these units; this is analogous to the case with two time periods. The reason to drop these units is that untreated
potential outcomes are never observed for this group which will imply that treatment effects are not identified for this group
nor are they useful as a comparison group under a parallel trends assumption.


                                                              5
