                                                                                                     bal
practice, one should consider this “robustness” versus “efficiency” trade-off when choosing between θes
and θes .
                        bal (e; e0 ) closely resembles the empirical practice of only reporting event-study-
Remark 8. We note that θes
type coefficients for the event periods that do not suffer from compositional changes, see, e.g., McCrary
(2007) and Bailey and Goodman-Bacon (2015). An important caveat is that our proposed event-study-type
           bal (e; e0 ) are not based on dynamic TWFE specifications akin to (3.3), and therefore bypass
estimands θes
the pitfalls associated with (3.3) highlighted by Sun and Abraham (2020).

3.1.2       How do average treatment effects vary across groups?

It is also straightforward to aggregate our group-time average treatment effects to understand hetero-
geneity in the effect of participating in the treatment across groups. Although understanding this sort
of heterogeneity is relatively less common in applied work than trying to understand dynamic effects as
discussed above, there are still a number of cases in economics where understanding this sort of hetero-
geneity may be of interest. For example, work on the effect of graduating during a recession on labor
market outcomes (Oreopoulos et al. (2012)) or the effect of job displacement across the business cycle
(Farber (2017)) are related to heterogeneous effects across groups. More generally, these parameters are
useful for understanding if the effect of participating in the treatment was larger for groups that are
treated earlier relative to groups that are treated later. In addition, in the next section, these parameters
will be the building block for our main measure of the overall effect of participating in the treatment. To
consider heterogeneous effects across groups, we consider the following parameter
                                                                T
                                                       1       X
                                     θsel (g̃) =                 AT T (g̃, t).                          (3.7)
                                                    T − g̃ + 1
                                                               t=g̃

θsel (g̃) is the average effect of participating in the treatment among units in group g̃, across all their
post-treatment periods.

3.1.3       What is the cumulative average treatment effect of the policy across all groups until
            time t̃?

In some applications, researchers may want to construct an aggregated target parameter to highlight
treatment effect heterogeneity with respect to calendar time. In economics, for example, researchers
might wish to study heterogeneous treatment effects across the business cycle. The average effect of
participating in the treatment in time period t (across groups that have adopted the treatment by period
t) is given by
                                          X
                              θc (t̃) =         1{t̃ ≥ g}P (G = g|G ≤ t̃)AT T (g, t)                    (3.8)
                                          g∈G

An extension to this parameter is to think about the cumulative effect of participating in the treatment
up to some particular time period. For instance, in active labor market applications, policy makers may
want to know the cumulative average effect of a given training program on earnings from the year that
the first group of people were trained until year t̃. This would provide a measure of the cumulative


                                                          17
