    Our summary parameters aggregated by group and by calendar time are also consistent with the idea
that increasing the minimum wage had a negative effect on county level teen employment relative to what
would have happened in the absence of the minimum wage increase.
    The second set of results comes from using the conditional parallel trends assumption; that is, we
assume only that counties with the same characteristics would follow the same trend in teen employment
in the absence of treatment. The county characteristics that we use are region of the country, county
population, county median income, the fraction of the population that is white, the fraction of the
population with a high school education, and the county’s poverty rate. We use the doubly robust
estimation procedure discussed above. Thus, estimation requires a first step estimation of the generalized
propensity score and outcome regression discussed above. For each generalized propensity score, we
estimate a logit model that includes each county characteristic along with quadratic terms for population
and median income.18 For the outcome regressions, we use the same specification for the covariates.
    Before presenting these results, we note that our doubly robust estimation procedure is not compu-
tationally demanding. Our estimates of group-time average treatment effects in this section (across all
groups and time periods and including our multiplier bootstrap with 1000 iterations) run in 3.0 seconds on
a laptop with a 2.80-GHz Intel i5 processor with 8GB of RAM and without using any parallel processing.
    For comparison’s sake, we first estimate the coefficient on a post-treatment dummy variable in a model
with unit fixed effects and region-year fixed effects. This is very similar to one of the sorts of models
that Dube et al. (2010) finds to eliminate the correlation between the minimum wage and employment.
Like Dube et al. (2010), using this specification, we find that the estimated coefficient is small and not
statistically different from 0. However, one must have in mind that the approach we proposed in this
article is different from the two-way fixed effects regression. In particular, we explicitly identify group-
time average treatment effects for different groups and different times, allowing for arbitrary treatment
effect heterogeneity as long as the conditional parallel trends assumption is satisfied. Thus, our causal
parameters have a clear interpretation. As pointed out by Wooldridge (2005a), Chernozhukov et al.
(2013), de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020), Borusyak and Jaravel (2017), Goodman-Bacon (2019)
and Sloczyński (2018), the same may not be true for two-way fixed effects regressions in the presence of
treatment effect heterogeneity.19
    The results using our approach are available in Panel (b) in Figure 1 and Panel (b) in Table 3.
Interestingly, we find quite different results using our approach than are suggested by the two-way fixed
effects regression approach. In particular, we continue to find evidence that increasing the minimum wage
tended to reduce teen employment. The estimated group-time average treatment effects range from 0.9%
lower teen employment (not statistically different from 0) in 2006 for the group of states first treated
in 2006 to 7.1% lower teen employment in 2007 for states first treated in 2004. Now, 3 of 7 group-time
average treatment effects are statistically significant. The average effect of increasing the minimum wage

   18
      Using the propensity score specification tests proposed by Sant’Anna and Song (2019), we fail to reject the null hy-
pothesis that these models are correctly specified at the usual significance levels.
   19
      Our approach is also different from that of Dube et al. (2010) in several other ways that are worth mentioning. We focus
on teen employment; Dube et al. (2010) considers employment in the restaurant industry. Their most similar specification to
the one mentioned above includes census division-time fixed effects rather than region-time fixed effects though the results
are similar. Finally, our period of analysis is different from theirs; in particular, there are no federal minimum wage changes
over the periods we analyze.


                                                              31
