all event times or θc (t) across all time periods, i.e.,
                                          T −2                                     T
                             O        1 X                                      1 X
                            θes =         θes (e)                    θcO =         θc (t)             (3.12)
                                    T −1                                     T −1
                                          e=0                                     t=2

                                                                                                  O
In our view, the appeal of these aggregations is likely to be somewhat more limited than that of θsel
                                                          O is complicated by the issue of the changing
in most applications. For example, the interpretation of θes
composition of groups across different values of e discussed above (similar arguments apply to θcO as well).
As before, one can circumvent the issue of the changing composition of groups by balancing the sample
with respect to event time. A (local) single summary parameter is given by

                                                                e0
                                         O,bal 0          1 X bal
                                        θes   (e ) =          θes (e, e0 )                            (3.13)
                                                       e0 + 1
                                                                e=0

This is the average effect of participating in the treatment over the first e0 periods of exposure to the
treatment. This is also a reasonable alternative overall treatment effect parameter, but it should also be
noted that it is local to groups that participated in the treatment for at least e0 periods.
    As a final comment, in general, none of the overall effect parameters considered in this section are
equal to each other except in the special case where AT T (g, t) is the same for all groups and all time
periods. In that case, all of the aggregated parameters, including β from the TWFE regression, are equal
to each other.


4    Estimation and Inference
So far we have focused on the identification and aggregation stages of the analysis. In this section,
we show how one can build on these results to form estimators for and conduct inference about the
group-time average treatment effects and their summary measures described in Section 3. Given that the
AT T (g, t)’s are the main building blocks of our analysis, we start with them.
    First, it is important to notice that our identification results in Theorem 1 are constructive and
suggest a simple and intuitive two-step estimation strategy to estimate the AT T (g, t)’s. In the first step,
one estimates the nuisance functions for each group g and time period t — pg (x) and/or mnev
                                                                                         g,t,δ (X) if
one relies on Assumption 4, and pg,t+δ (x) and/or mny
                                                   g,t,δ (X) if one relies on Assumption 5. In the second
step, one plugs the fitted values of these estimated nuisance functions into the sample analogue of the
considered AT T (g, t) estimand to obtain estimates of the group-time average treatment effect.
    A natural question that then arises is which type of approach one should use in practice: the out-
come regression, inverse probability weighting, or the doubly-robust one. Although these three differ-
ent approaches are equivalent from the identification perspective, this is not the case from the esti-
mation/inference perspective. The OR approach requires researchers to correctly model the outcome
evolution of the comparison group to estimate the group-time average treatment effects. This approach
is explicitly connected with the conditional parallel trends assumption required in DiD analysis as this
condition is usually expressed in terms of conditional expectations. The IPW approach, on the other
hand, avoids explicitly modeling the outcome evolution of the comparison group and therefore does not


                                                           19
