   By far the most common approach to trying to understand the effect of the minimum wage on em-
ployment is to exploit variation in the timing of minimum wage increases across states. Our identification
strategy follows this approach. In particular, we consider a time period from 2001-2007 where the federal
minimum wage was flat at $5.15 per hour. We focus on county level teen employment in states whose
minimum wage was equal to the federal minimum wage at the beginning of the period. Some of these
states increased their minimum wage over this period – these become treated groups. In particular, we
define groups by the time period when a state first increased its minimum wage. Others did not increase
their minimum wage – these are the untreated group. This setup allows us to have more data than local
case study approaches. On the other hand, it also allows us to have cleaner identification (state-level
minimum wage policy changes) than in studies with more periods; the latter setup is more complicated
than ours particularly because of the variation in the federal minimum wage over time. It also allows
us to check for internal consistency of identifying assumptions – namely whether or not the identifying
assumptions hold in periods before particular states raised their minimum wages.
   We use county level data on teen employment and other county characteristics. County level teen
employment comes from the Quarterly Workforce Indicators (QWI), as in Dube et al. (2016); see Dube
et al. (2016) for a detailed discussion of this dataset. Other pre-treatment county characteristics come from
the 2000 County Data Book. These include county population in 2000, the fraction of the population that
is white, educational characteristics from 1990, median income in 1997, and the fraction of the population
below the poverty level in 1997. After dropping ten states due to their minimum wage being higher than
the federal minimum wage in 2000, seven other states for lack of data on teen employment, and four
other states in the Northern census region, our final sample includes county-level data from 29 states.
We provide additional details on constructing the data in the Supplementary Appendix.
   Summary statistics for county characteristics are provided in Table 2. There are some notable dif-
ferences in county characteristics between counties in states that increased their minimum wage and in
states that did not increase their minimum wage. Treated counties are much less likely to be in the South.
They also have much higher population (on average 94,000 compared to 53,000 for untreated counties).
The proportion of white residents is higher in treated counties (on average, 89% compared to 83% for
untreated counties). There are smaller differences in the fraction with high school degrees and the poverty
rate though the differences are both statistically significant. Treated counties have a somewhat higher
fraction of high school graduates and a somewhat lower poverty rate.


5.1   Results
In the following we discuss different sets of results using different identification strategies. In particular,
we consider the cases in which one would assume that the parallel trends assumption would hold un-
conditionally, and when it holds only after controlling on observed characteristics X. In the main text,
we consider the case where never-treated counties are the comparison group and where we do not allow
for any anticipation effects (i.e., δ = 0). We provide results using the not-yet-treated counties as the
comparison group and allowing for one year anticipation in the Supplementary Appendix; results from
those cases are quite similar to the ones presented here.
   The first set of results comes from using the unconditional parallel trends assumption to estimate the


                                                      27
