earnings gains induced by the training program. Alternatively, in health applications, researchers may
want to measure how many COVID-19 cases have been averted by shelter-in-place orders up to day t̃.
To consider the cumulative effect, consider the following parameter

                                                                 t̃
                                                                 X
                                             θccumu
                                                        
                                                       t̃ =            θc (t).                         (3.9)
                                                                 t=2

θccumu t̃ can be interpreted as the cumulative average treatment effect among the units that have been
         

treated by time t̃.

3.2   Aggregations into Overall Treatment Effect Parameters
Finally in this section, we consider some ideas for aggregating group time average treatment effects into
an overall effect of participating in the treatment. One very simple idea is to just average all of the
identified group-time average treatment effects together; i.e., to consider the parameter
                                        T
                            O     1 XX
                           θW =        1{t ≥ g}AT T (g, t)P (G = g|G ≤ T )                           (3.10)
                                  κ
                                    g∈G t=2

            P       PT
where κ =     g∈G t=2 1{t ≥ g}P (G = g|G ≤ T ) (which ensures that the weights on AT T (g, t) in the sec-
                          O is a weighted average of each AT T (g, t) putting more weight on AT T (g, t)’s
ond term sum up to one). θW
with larger group sizes. Unlike β in the TWFE regression specification (3.2), this simple combination of
AT T (g, t)’s immediately rules out troubling issues due to negative weights; as a particular example, when
the effect of participating in the treatment is positive for all units, this aggregated parameter cannot be
negative.
   That being said, just requiring positive weights is a very minimal requirement of a reasonable overall
                                                          O is that it systematically puts more weight
treatment effect parameter. For example, one drawback of θW
on groups that participate in the treatment for longer. Instead, we suggest the following parameter as a
general-purpose summary of the average effect of participating in the treatment
                                              X
                                     O
                                    θsel =          θsel (g)P (G = g|G ≤ T )                         (3.11)
                                              g∈G

where θsel (g) is the average effect of participating in the treatment for units in group g as defined in
                       O first computes the average effect for each group (across all time periods) and
Equation (3.7) above. θsel
then averages these effects together across groups to summarize the overall average effect of participating
                         O is the average effect of participating in the treatment experienced by all
in the treatment. Thus, θsel
units that ever participated in the treatment. In this respect, its interpretation is the same as the ATT in
the canonical DiD setup with two periods and two groups. This is an attractive property for a summary
measure of the overall effect of participating in the treatment in the context of multiple time periods and
variation in treatment timing.
   Working by analogy, one can also define overall treatment effect parameters by averaging θes (e) across




                                                            18
