chatbots automate tasks previously performed by humans (e.g., automated copyediting);
a positive task reinstatement effect, where new tasks for humans emerge (e.g., oversight
or integration of AI outputs); and a positive productivity effect, where efficiency gains
enable firms to scale up production, including labor demand—depending on the elasticity
of product demand. Adoption of new technologies increases labor demand only when
the combined productivity and reinstatement effects outweigh the displacement effect. A
key consideration is whether chatbot use augments or displaces workers’ expertise (Autor
and Thompson, 2025); several experiments show that chatbots benefit less experienced
workers, helping to close skill gaps within professions (Brynjolfsson, Li and Raymond,
2025; Noy and Zhang, 2023).
   Modeling chatbots is further complicated by the fact that adoption is not solely a firm-
level decision; it also depends on workers’ choices to use the tools. Following Section A.1,
workers use chatbots if the productivity benefits exceed the adoption costs. In particular,
if the amenity value of chatbot use is sufficiently high, workers may adopt even when
doing so reduces their productivity.
   In sum, the implications of chatbot adoption for labor demand and productivity
are theoretically ambiguous at both the firm and worker levels. At the firm level, the
outcome depends on whether the productivity and reinstatement effects together outweigh
displacement. At the worker level, it depends on the amenity value of chatbot use.


Firm and worker heterogeneity. Another key question is why some firms and workers
adopt chatbots while others do not. Following Mas (2025); Rosen (1986), chatbots can be
viewed as a “productive amenity”: firms encourage chatbot use if the profit gains exceed
costs, while workers adopt if the productivity benefits outweigh adoption costs (as in
Section A.1). In competitive labor markets, Rosen (1986) shows that the wage effects
of an amenity depend on the tradeoffs at the margin—the costs and benefits faced by
firms and workers just indifferent to providing or accepting it. This implies that the wage
effects of chatbot encouragement hinge on the marginal firm and worker.



                                             8
