adopters, leaving any level effect on non-adopters unidentified—the “missing intercept.”
For example, when we compare earnings relative to non-encouraged non-adopters in
Section 3.2, any general equilibrium effects that also affect these workers are differenced
out. Indeed, Section 2.3 showed that AI chatbots have created new job tasks even for
non-adopters. The key question for our analysis below is whether such spillovers also
surface in earnings or recorded hours. For instance, adopting firms might expand by
poaching workers from non-adopting competitors, biasing our workplace employment
estimates upward. Alternatively, if firms adjust labor demand in anticipation of AI
chatbots—rather than based on their actual adoption—the estimates would be biased
toward zero. We assess the potential magnitude of these spillover effects from several
complementary angles.
   First, we assess potential spillovers at different levels of aggregation by estimating
difference-in-differences models at the worker, workplace, and occupation levels. For
instance, the fact that encouraged workplaces do not experience differential changes in
labor demand in Section 3.4 suggests that spillovers in employment outcomes within
workplaces are limited. Consistent with this interpretation, Figure F.3 shows that non-
adopters in encouraged workplaces have fared similarly to their counterparts in non-
encouraged workplaces following the introduction of AI chatbots. Extending this approach,
Appendix D.1 shifts the analysis to the occupation level, showing that our exposed study
occupations have also evolved similarly to the rest of the economy, maintaining a stable
20% share of aggregate hours and earnings before and after the arrival of AI chatbots.
   Second, Appendix A.2.6 uses a market equilibrium model to show that our difference-
in-differences estimates are informative about the magnitude of the “missing intercept.” In
particular, under reasonable labor demand elasticities, null effects at both the workplace
and worker levels imply that the occupation-wide equilibrium effect is also negligible. The
key intuition is that adopters generate spillovers to non-adopters only when their own
market outcomes change. Thus, the absence of adoption effects at both levels implies that
spillovers to non-adopters are likewise limited.


                                            20
