3.2       Worker Earnings

Figure 5, Panels (a) and (b) examine earnings of chatbot adopters, distinguishing between
those with and without employer encouragement (i.e., encouraged-use policies). Each
group is compared to non-encouraged non-adopters—workers insulated from AI chatbots
through both personal non-use and the absence of employer encouragement.
       Panel (a) begins by presenting differences in means, controlling for workers’ survey
occupation and pre-determined characteristics. Adopters appear to earn substantial
premia of about 9% for those with employer-encouraged usage and 4% for those without.
However, leveraging the panel dimension of our administrative data reveals that these
earnings differentials entirely predate the arrival of AI chatbots. Indexing to November
2022, the difference-in-differences estimates in Panel (b) show no differential changes for
either group of adopters following the introduction of AI chatbots. Appendix F.2 shows
that these null results hold separately for workers’ hourly wages, intensive-margin hours,
and extensive-margin employment. Moreover, Figure F.4 shows that the null results on
worker earnings hold if we rely only on the variation in chatbot use that stems from
employer policies—variation that is arguably more plausibly unrelated to individuals’
earnings trajectories.
       Figure 5, Panel (b) provides three key insights. First, two years after their launch, AI
chatbots have had minimal earnings impact on workers who use them. The confidence
intervals of our dynamic difference-in-differences estimates rule out changes larger than 3%,
and our pooled difference-in-differences estimates rule out effects larger than 2%.14 These
effects are also small relative to the substantial variation in earnings changes observed
for similar workers over time: the standard deviation of residual earnings changes is
about 30 percentage points in December 2024. Second, these effects show no differential
trends after the introduction of AI chatbots, indicating that the minimal impacts are not
  14
     The dynamic difference-in-differences in Figure 5, Panel (b) reveal that adopters are on slightly
stronger labor market trends. However, because these trends entirely predate AI chatbots, the pooled
difference-in-differences in Figure 7, Panel (a) (which control for pre-trends; see Equation (3)) are precise
zeros, with confidence bands ruling out effects larger than 2%.




                                                     23
