   Finally, as discussed in Section 3.5, workers’ perceived earnings impacts offer an
independent lens for evaluating general equilibrium spillovers. In particular, the fact that
virtually all non-adopters report no effect on their earnings further reinforces the finding
that spillover impacts of AI chatbots remain minimal.
   Taken together, these different analyses—difference-in-differences at varying levels
of aggregation, equilibrium calibration of micro-level estimates, and perceived impacts
among workers—all point to the conclusion that AI chatbots have not had any meaningful
impact on non-adopters’ earnings or employment thus far.

3.1.2   Regression Specifications

Sampling Design and Data. Our data and sampling are designed to answer the
questions described above. By linking survey responses from workers in the most highly
exposed occupations to comprehensive matched employer–employee panel data covering
the entire Danish economy, we can study labor market outcomes before and after the
arrival of AI chatbots. Crucially, the matched data allow us to track not only the surveyed
workers themselves but also other workers at the same workplaces, including those who
have since left.
   Our survey sampling design also imposes restrictions that we explicitly account for
in the analysis. In particular, because we survey workers in exposed occupations, all
respondents are, by construction, employed in those occupations at the time of the survey
sampling. Accordingly, all specifications include survey-occupation × time fixed effects,
ensuring that all comparisons are made within survey strata and time period, between
workers (or workplaces) that differ in their adoption of AI chatbots. We also study
heterogeneity in effects by survey occupation.
   Let Yit denote a labor market outcome (e.g., earnings) for worker i in month-year t, let
Xi denote survey-occupation fixed effects and worker pre-determined characteristics—age,
gender, and potential experience in 2022—and let Ai indicate whether the worker has
adopted AI chatbots. We examine both worker-level effects (e.g., worker earnings by



                                            21
