3.1    Empirical Strategy

Evaluating the labor market impacts of AI chatbots raises several conceptual questions:
What are the relevant treatments to consider? If the treatments have an effect, in which
recorded labor market outcomes would they manifest? And how can we identify these
impacts in the data?
   Motivated by the dual nature of adoption—with variation across workplaces depending
on their chatbot initiatives and within workplaces depending on individual use—we analyze
impacts at both the worker and workplace levels.
   Appendix A.2 presents a theoretical framework for how adoption translates into labor
market outcomes at the worker and workplace levels, guiding the following analyses:

  1. Worker earnings: If chatbots raise individual productivity, a natural question is
      whether and how these improvements translate into earnings for users relative to
      comparable non-users (Krueger, 1993). Wage effects depend on whether adoption is
      worker- or firm-driven, whether chatbot use displaces users from higher-value tasks
      or is valued as a nonpecuniary amenity, and the structure of wage setting (Autor
      and Thompson, 2025; Becker, 1964; Card et al., 2018; Rosen, 1986). Section 3.2
      investigates these questions by estimating the impacts of chatbot use on workers’
      earnings by their intensity of use, employer initiatives, reported productivity gains,
      new AI-related workloads, and wage-setting systems.

  2. Workplace employment: If chatbots reduce the need for labor, adopting workplaces
      might slow hiring or lay off workers. Conversely, if the tools boost productivity
      and spur demand, adopting workplaces could expand employment. In particular,
      concerns have been raised that generative AI could displace entry-level positions
      (Amodei, 2025; Brynjolfsson, Chandar and Chen, 2025). Section 3.4 analyzes these
      possibilities by estimating the effects of employer chatbot initiatives on workplace
      employment, early-career jobs, job churn, and incumbent worker outcomes.

  3. Job mobility: If chatbots are especially useful for newcomers to an occupation,

                                            17
