2         The Currents: Adoption and Work Reorganization

In this section, we study how AI chatbots are integrated into the workplace. Section 2.1
describes employers’ chatbot initiatives, showing that even as chatbots have become
widespread, otherwise similar firms often adopt markedly different approaches. In Sec-
tion 2.2, we examine how these strategies reflect in workers’ chatbot use and its reported
benefits. Finally, in Section 2.3, we study how AI chatbots reshape the organization of
work, including the creation of new job tasks. Together, these results document the rapid
currents of adoption and work reorganization set in motion by the arrival of AI chatbots.


2.1        Employer Initiatives

Figure 1, Panel (a), shows the prevalence of employer usage policies for AI chatbots
across our 11 occupations. Firms now broadly embrace AI chatbots: about 43% explicitly
encourage their use, another 21% allow it, while only about 6% explicitly prohibit it.4
This widespread adoption of AI chatbots in the workplace is consistent with their general-
purpose features (Eloundou et al., 2024).
        Employers not only set usage policies but also invest directly in chatbot adoption.
Panel (b) shows the chatbot packages adopted by different employers. Among firms that
encourage chatbot use, 61% have an enterprise chatbot solution, 39% provide training,
and 29% offer both. Notably, enterprise chatbots and training are present even in some
workplaces that do not encourage use.
        Which firms have adopted different AI chatbot initiatives? Table E.1 shows that firms
encouraging AI chatbot use tend to be slightly younger (each additional 10 years of age is
associated with a 1.4 percentage point decrease in encouragement), more productive (a
doubling of productivity corresponds to a 4.7 percentage point increase), and more likely
to be privately owned (associated with a 4.1 percentage point increase). Yotzov et al.
    4
    The widespread embrace of AI chatbots marks a shift from early responses to ChatGPT, when many
employers restricted its use due to concerns about data confidentiality and output accuracy (Humlum
and Vestergaard, 2025). Although outright bans are now rare, they persist in some occupations involving
sensitive data (e.g., financial advisors) or requiring high factual accuracy (e.g., legal professionals).



                                                   10
