linking large-scale, representative data on AI chatbot adoption and work reorganization
to administrative labor market records.
       A contemporaneous set of studies uses exposure measures—technical assessments of
which job tasks are feasible to assist with AI chatbots—to examine whether exposed
occupations have fared differently after the release of ChatGPT. Brynjolfsson, Chandar
and Chen (2025) document a sharp decline in employment of early-career workers in
AI-exposed occupations in the United States since 2022, suggesting that generative AI
may already be displacing entry-level jobs. Our key contribution is to split these trends
by whether firms have actually adopted generative AI, revealing that the declines are not
driven by firms adopting AI chatbots.
       A small but growing number of studies field worker-level surveys on the adoption
of generative AI (Bick, Blandin and Deming, 2025; Hartley et al., 2025; Humlum and
Vestergaard, 2025). While our adoption patterns and self-reported time savings align with
these studies, we link these survey measures to administrative labor market outcomes,
including earnings and hours at the worker and workplace levels, allowing us to move the
analysis beyond self-reported effects.3
       While several experiments document sizable productivity gains from chatbot use on
specific tasks (Brynjolfsson, Li and Raymond, 2025; Dillon et al., 2025; Noy and Zhang,
2023), it remains unclear how these gains translate into workers’ labor market outcomes,
as high-quality microdata are rarely available. While AI chatbot use has not measurably
affected workers’ earnings and hours, we find a clear association between adoption and
occupational mobility. This aligns with experimental evidence that chatbots provide
greater benefits to workers with less prior expertise. Moreover, adopters who switch move
into occupations with higher wage premia and where using AI chatbots is more relevant,
suggesting that chatbots help workers access otherwise scarce expertise (Autor, 2024;
Autor and Thompson, 2025).
   3
    AI labs have recently released descriptive statistics from their internal usage data (Chatterji et al.,
2025; Handa et al., 2025; Tomlinson et al., 2025). Our survey data complement these by capturing the full
range of chatbot products, measuring complementary workplace investments, linking to administrative
records, and sampling both users and non-users from a well-defined population frame.


                                                    5
