workers handle new responsibilities caused by AI chatbots.
       To further understand how AI chatbots affect the nature of work, we asked respondents
to describe the new job tasks they perform as a result of AI chatbots. In Appendix B.3,
we categorize the free-text responses into common new tasks associated with AI chatbots
in each occupation. AI chatbots have generated new job tasks for workers across all 11
occupations, with 53% to 91% of new tasks directly linked to AI use.
       Figure 4 breaks down the composition of AI-related job tasks by occupation and
task category. Appendix B.3 provides example tasks for each pair. About 42% of new
AI-related tasks relate to generating new content, including AI Ideation, AI Content
Drafting, and AI Data Insights. For example, marketing professionals report new tasks
related to “prompting and iterating with AI to produce marketing copy, social media
posts, and product descriptions.” Notably, 35% of new AI-related work is dedicated
to AI Quality Review and AI Ethics & Compliance, suggesting that AI adoption shifts
workers not only toward content generation but also toward supervisory roles overseeing
AI outputs.10 For example, a large share of teachers report new work related to “detecting
AI-generated homework.” Finally, the single most common new AI task category is AI
Integration—that is, the integration of AI chatbots into the workplace, which accounts for
about 26% of all new tasks, with the highest share observed in IT support and software
development. For example, software developers report “fine-tuning AI coding assistants
by providing feedback and project-specific examples,” and legal professionals describe
“developing organizational AI usage policies and guidelines.”
       AI chatbot workloads extend beyond direct users: Figure 3, Panel (b) shows that
4% of non-users report new workloads resulting from AI chatbots, with effects most
pronounced in workplaces that have adopted chatbot initiatives. In particular, Figure B.1,
Panel (b) shows that 10% of teachers who have not used AI chatbots report new AI-related
  10
    Appendix Figure E.3 shows that AI Ethics & Compliance tasks are especially common among
workers who have received employer-provided AI chatbot training, helping to contextualize the finding in
Section 2.2 that training—when implemented in isolation—is associated with lower productivity gains
from AI chatbots. In contrast, workplaces that only encourage chatbot use exhibit a higher share of
“generative tasks” focused on AI Ideation and AI Content Drafting.



                                                  15
