capture these changes relative to the launch of ChatGPT. By December 2024, adopters
have increased their hours in their most recent occupation by about 4% of a full-time
equivalent relative to non-adopters. The figure provides four insights.
       First, the figure suggests that chatbots appeal to workers who are new to their
occupations. This relationship may reflect that chatbots facilitate occupational transitions—
for instance, by granting access to otherwise scarce expertise—or that workers who have
recently switched find chatbots especially valuable as they adapt to new roles.17
       Second, the effects on occupational mobility grow steadily, likely reflecting both the
deepening of adoption over time and the emergence of new labor market opportunities. As
we show below, these transitions tend to be into occupations with higher wage premia and
greater AI chatbot relevance, suggesting that this mobility channel may gain importance
over time.
       Third, the flat pre-trend prior to the arrival of chatbots suggests that this association
reflects a real effect rather than omitted confounders (e.g., more dynamic workers both
adopting chatbots and switching jobs more generally). This contrasts with the earnings
gaps in Panel (a), which were entirely attributable to pre-existing differences between
adopters and non-adopters.
       Finally, the significant estimates provide reassurance that our empirical specification
has the power to detect effects when they exist—a useful contrast to the null results for
earnings and employment.


Heterogeneity by Intensity of Adoption. Figure 6, Panel (b) examines how the
relationship between chatbot adoption and occupational mobility varies with the intensity
of adoption. The figure shows that the association between chatbot adoption and occu-
pational switching is driven primarily by individual-level factors rather than firm-level
initiatives. For example, our main estimate on occupational switching rises from 1.3%
  17
   In contrast, Appendix F.3 shows that the association between chatbot adoption and workplace
mobility is weaker, and occupational mobility is no stronger at workplaces that encourage chatbot use.
These patterns align with Figure 6, Panel (b), which indicates that the relationship between chatbot
adoption and occupational switching is driven primarily by individual rather than firm-level factors.



                                                 27
