annual revenue and employment) from the Firm Statistics (FIRM) Register. Because our
survey was sent to workers identified in the register data by their (deidentified) social
security numbers (pnr), all respondents can be matched to the register data. While labor
market data in the BFL register are updated continuously, we only have firm financial
data up to 2022. For that reason, we focus our effect analyses on labor market outcomes.


1.3     Survey Sample

We invited 115,000 workers to participate in each of our survey rounds in 2023 and
2024. The registers at Statistics Denmark enabled us to target these invitations by
occupation and workplace. In particular, for each of our 11 occupations, we conducted a
workplace-based sampling procedure, first drawing a random set of workplaces within each
occupation and then sampling all relevant workers at these workplaces. This sampling
procedure maximizes the statistical power of the workplace-level analyses while keeping
our sample representative. Appendix B.1 details the sampling protocol. We sent three
reminders per survey round, two by e-mail and one by text. The invitation letters are
in Appendix H. We received about 25,000 valid and complete responses to each survey.
Appendix B.2 details our survey response rates. While our main analysis focuses on
responses from the 2024 round, we use the 2023 round to examine early adopters.

1.3.1   Representativeness and Response Quality

Appendix B.2.1 conducts several checks on the representativeness and quality of our
survey responses. These analyses extend the checks in Humlum and Vestergaard (2025) to
the 2024 survey round. First, we ensure that our sample represents the population based
on observables, including age, gender, experience, earnings, and wealth. Second, following
Dutz et al. (2025), we use randomized participation incentives to show that our findings
are also balanced on workers’ latent willingness to participate in the survey. Finally, we
cross-check that the survey responses align with variables that are also recorded in the
administrative registers.



                                            9
