merely a short-term phenomenon. Third, despite evidence in Section 2.2 that employer
encouragement boosts work-related benefits of AI chatbots, we find no differential changes
in earnings for workers whose employers encourage their chatbot use.


Heterogeneity by Intensity of Adoption. Figure 6, Panel (a) examines the earnings
impacts of chatbot use by the intensity of workers’ adoption.
   We first consider the effects of additional investments in employer-provided chatbots
and training, offering insights into the impacts of AI chatbot use when firms pursue a more
comprehensive strategy. Yet even when the “full package” of encouraged use, enterprise
chatbots, and training substantially increases reported benefits (Section 2.2), we find no
detectable impact on adopter earnings.
   Next, we consider whether the null effects reflect the limited intensity of individual
use. In particular, even if most adopters do not use the tools daily, a meaningful fraction
of workers report more substantial benefits—such as daily time savings exceeding one
hour. Turning to workers who use AI chatbots daily or who adopted within the first year
after ChatGPT’s launch, we find no differential earnings changes since the arrival of AI
chatbots, despite their substantial engagement with the tools. Similarly, among workers
who report greater benefits from chatbot use—time savings exceeding one hour per day,
higher-quality output, and enhanced creativity—we find no differential earnings changes
in the administrative data. Taken together, although “super users” (those with the most
intensive adoption or highest reported benefits) certainly appear in our data, even their
more intensive engagement with AI chatbots has not translated into detectable earnings
gains.
   Finally, we consider workers who report new workloads from AI chatbots—and new
AI-related tasks in particular. Even if chatbot use does not directly affect adopter earnings,
it could influence them indirectly through the creation of new work. Yet neither workers
with new workloads nor those with new AI-related tasks have experienced differential
earnings changes since the arrival of AI chatbots.



                                             24
