Occupational Heterogeneity. The overall zero effects could mask important hetero-
geneity across occupations. For instance, since teachers are covered by collective bargaining
with centralized wage setting, it may be less surprising that individual productivity gains
do not translate into higher earnings. By contrast, occupations such as marketing and
software development feature decentralized wage setting, allowing more flexibility to
adjust pay based on individual productivity.15 Appendix C.1 provides an overview of the
wage-setting systems in Denmark, showing rich variation across our study occupations.
Occupational heterogeneity may also arise from whether chatbots are used primarily for
core versus peripheral tasks within an occupation (Autor and Thompson, 2025).
   Figure 7, Panel (a) shows the estimated effects of AI chatbots on worker earnings
across the 11 occupations in our sample. Confidence bands are wider for these occupation-
specific estimates and should therefore be interpreted with caution. Nonetheless, we find
no statistically significant effects in any occupation, and point estimates are generally near
zero. Even for our most contrasting groups—software developers and marketers, with
more flexible wages and larger reported time savings, versus teachers, with centralized
wage-setting and smaller reported savings—we find no systematic differences in earnings
impacts.


Discussion. Our administrative data show that users of AI chatbots have not experi-
enced differential changes in earnings or hours following the arrival of these tools. Even
among workers who use chatbots daily and report substantial benefits, we find no net
changes—not even a break in trends. These patterns echo those documented for computer
use in the 1980s by Krueger (1993) and critiqued by DiNardo and Pischke (1997): although
chatbot use is correlated with sizable cross-sectional earnings premia, these differentials
vanish once accounting for positive selection.
   Are the null wage effects of chatbot use theoretically surprising? Competitive labor
markets (e.g., our framework in Appendix A.2) imply that workers should be compensated
  15
     Furthermore, marketing professionals and software developers are exactly the occupations with the
highest reported use and productivity gains from the tools (Appendix E.3).



                                                 25
