on monthly earnings, hours worked, and occupations through December 2024—two years
after the launch of ChatGPT. Using a difference-in-differences framework, we compare
adopters and non-adopters before and after the arrival of AI chatbots, estimating impacts
at both the worker and workplace levels.
   We first analyze workers who use AI chatbots. If chatbot use enhances individual
productivity, a natural question is whether and how such gains affect their earnings
(Krueger, 1993). The answer is theoretically ambiguous, depending on whether adoption
is worker- or firm-driven (Becker, 1964), whether it displaces users from higher-value tasks
(Autor and Thompson, 2025), whether chatbot use is valued as a nonpecuniary amenity
(Rosen, 1986), and on the structure of wage setting (Card et al., 2018).
   We find precisely null effects of AI chatbot use on earnings and hours. Difference-
in-differences estimates for earnings, recorded hours, and wages all center on zero, with
confidence intervals ruling out average effects larger than 2%. These null results hold even
among workers who use chatbots daily, report substantial productivity gains, perform
new AI-related tasks, or work in firms that encourage and invest in chatbots. Moreover,
we find no significant effects in any of our 11 occupations, including those with flexible,
decentralized wage-setting.
   While chatbots have not led to earnings gains for users on average, we find a clear link
to occupational mobility: since the arrival of AI chatbots, adopters are significantly more
likely to have switched occupations, working about 4% of a full-time equivalent more in
their most recent occupation by December 2024. These transitions are most pronounced
into IT support specialist and clerical (office support) roles—occupations in which workers
have greater discretion over their toolsets and that do not require formal educational
credentials. These patterns align with experimental evidence that chatbots are especially
beneficial for workers with less prior expertise (Brynjolfsson, Li and Raymond, 2025; Noy
and Zhang, 2023) and support the view that generative AI helps workers move into new
occupations by granting access to otherwise scarce expertise (Autor, 2024). In particular,
adopters who switch occupations tend to move into roles with higher wage premia and


                                             3
