Still, the relative importance of encouraged-use policies may seem surprising, as such
policies might appear inexpensive in monetary terms. But the low capital costs of chatbot
solutions (Appendix E.2 details adoption by chatbot products) heighten the importance of
complementary organizational practices, such as explicitly encouraging use. For example,
Shopify has publicly reframed generative AI from something employees may use into
a baseline expectation; Chicago Public Schools explicitly encourages faculty to engage
with GenAI tools; and Denmark’s Agency for Digital Government similarly emphasizes
that adoption requires clear usage guidelines and supportive organizational frameworks
even when publicly available tools are used (Chicago Public Schools, 2024; Digitaliser-
ingsstyrelsen, 2024; Lütke, 2025). Consistent with this interpretation, Dillon et al. (2025)
show that firm effects are a key determinant of workers’ uptake of a randomized offer of
Microsoft Copilot.


2.3     New Workloads and Task Creation

AI chatbots not only affect existing tasks—they transform the nature of work itself.
Figure 3 shows how the emergence of new workloads from AI chatbots varies across
employer initiatives. These new workloads may stem from individual workers taking on
more work, from shifts in task allocation within teams, or from new demands generated
by the tools themselves, such as oversight and integration.
    The No Initiative estimates reveal that even in the absence of encouraged-use policies,
enterprise solutions, or training, AI chatbots have generated new workloads for 12% of
users (Panel (a)). Of these, about 5 percentage points report doing more of the same
tasks, and 8 percentage points have taken on entirely new tasks.9
    Notably, the share of users performing new tasks in Figure 3 increases to roughly 18%
in workplaces with active chatbot initiatives. Training, in particular, is strongly associated
with new job responsibilities, suggesting that these programs may be designed to help
   9
     Consistent with this reorganization of work, most chatbot users (85%) report reallocating time savings
from AI chatbots to other job tasks (Table E.3). By contrast, fewer than 10% report taking additional
breaks or leisure, and about 30% spend more time on the same tasks they initially saved time on.




                                                    14
