structure typically falls into one of the following three categories:


   • Sector-Level Bargaining (Centralized): Wages are negotiated centrally, with
         wages largely determined by the combination of industry and occupation. These
         agreements may include provisions for returns to tenure or education.

   • Two-Tiered Bargaining: The union and employer organization negotiate either
         a minimum hourly wage or a minimum income level for each industry-occupation
         category. Actual wages are then negotiated at the firm level, potentially with union
         support.

   • Firm-Level Bargaining (Decentralized): No specific wages are set at the
         collective level. Instead, all wage negotiations occur directly between the firm and
         its employees. The precise form of firm-level bargaining can vary.


       Table C.1 provides an overview of the wage-setting systems in our 11 study occupations.
Decentralized (two-tiered or firm-level) bargaining systems are the most prevalent in our
sample of 11 occupations. The main exception is teachers, who primarily work in the
public sector and are typically subject to centralized wage-setting agreements.
       However, not all workers in our sample are necessarily covered by CBAs. According to
Danish union representatives, CBA coverage is especially limited in small private firms.28
To provide an indication of expected coverage, Columns (1)-(3) of Table C.1 show the
share of our sample employed in either large private firms (defined as firms with at least
25 employees) or in the public sector, as proxies for likely CBA coverage. Columns (4)-(6)
report the type of wage-setting system in place among workers who are covered by a CBA,
utilizing the data collection from Dahl, Le Maire and Munch (2013).
  28
    We thank David Rosenqvist from Dansk Metal, the largest union for workers in the manufacturing
sector, for sharing his insights with us.




                                               32
