       AI chatbots mark the rise of generative artificial intelligence (AI): these tools have
seen the fastest worker take-up of any new technology (Bick, Blandin and Deming, 2025),
and controlled experiments demonstrate large productivity gains for users (Brynjolfsson,
Li and Raymond, 2025; Noy and Zhang, 2023). Yet even as generative AI tools have
become widespread, substantial disagreement remains about their labor market effects,
with forecasts ranging from dramatic displacement within a few years (Amodei, 2025) to
modest impacts over a decade (Acemoglu, 2025).1 This disagreement partly reflects how
little evidence exists on how labor markets actually absorb new technologies in their early
stages. How does work reorganize at the onset of major technological change?
       This paper argues that early labor market transformation under generative AI is best
understood as rapid currents under still waters: substantial reorganization of work occurs
as workplaces integrate AI chatbots and workers take on new AI-related tasks, absorbing
change before it surfaces in earnings or recorded hours.
       To study this process, we develop a unique data infrastructure linking workplace adop-
tion and work reorganization to administrative labor market outcomes. In collaboration
with Statistics Denmark, we conducted a series of large-scale, representative surveys of
AI chatbot adoption in 11 highly exposed occupations—where labor market effects are
likely to emerge earliest and strongest—linking responses to administrative labor market
records.2 Our latest survey round, conducted in late 2024, includes responses from 25,000
workers across 7,000 workplaces. These linked survey–register data allow us to examine
both recorded labor market outcomes—such as earnings and hours—and adjustments that
typically go unrecorded, including changes in job tasks and work organization. Crucially,
even within these highly exposed occupations, many otherwise similar workplaces and
workers have taken markedly different adoption paths, allowing us to examine how chatbot
   1
      Anthropic CEO Dario Amodei predicts that AI could eliminate half of all entry-level white-collar
jobs, driving unemployment to 10–20% within the next one to five years (Amodei, 2025). In contrast,
Acemoglu (2025) predicts that AI will increase annual TFP growth by less than 0.07 percentage points
over the next ten years.
    2
      Our list of occupations is accountants, customer support specialists, financial advisors, HR profession-
als, IT support specialists, journalists, legal professionals, marketing professionals, office clerks, software
developers, and teachers.



                                                      1
