1     Data and Institutional Setting

Denmark offers an ideal setting for examining the labor market impacts of generative AI.
    First, Danish workers have been at the forefront of generative AI adoption, with
take-up rates comparable to those in the United States (Bick, Blandin and Deming, 2025;
Humlum and Vestergaard, 2025; RISJ, 2024).
    Second, Denmark’s labor market is highly flexible, with low hiring and firing costs—
similar to those of the U.S.—which allow firms and workers to adjust employment in
response to technological change (Botero et al., 2004; Dahl, Le Maire and Munch, 2013).
Appendix C.1 details the wage-setting systems in our study occupations, showing that
most workers engage in annual negotiations with their employers, providing regular
opportunities to adjust earnings and hours in response to AI chatbot adoption.
    Third, Denmark has exceptional infrastructure for tracking the adoption of new
technologies. In particular, every Dane has a digital mailbox that Statistics Denmark can
use to distribute survey invitations. We use this infrastructure to conduct two large-scale,
representative surveys on AI chatbot adoption and work reorganization.
    Finally, our partnership with Statistics Denmark allows us to link these surveys
to administrative matched employer-employee data, providing a unique opportunity to
analyze labor market effects such as changes in earnings, working hours, and job mobility.
    Taken together, these factors make Denmark a prime setting for observing early
labor market effects of generative AI, with insights that may extend to other advanced
economies—including the U.S.—and an unparalleled data infrastructure linking workplace
adjustments to administrative labor market outcomes.


1.1    Survey Data

This paper builds on two large-scale surveys on AI chatbot adoption, conducted in
November–December of 2023 and 2024. The first survey provided the dataset for Humlum
and Vestergaard (2025), which documented adoption patterns of ChatGPT, the dominant
AI chatbot. This paper extends that dataset in two key ways. First, we link survey


                                             7
