to 4.1% for individuals who use the tools daily, and to 4.0% for those who report large
time savings.18 By contrast, the relationship between adoption and occupation switching
is fairly similar across employer chatbot initiatives, ranging in 2024 from about 1.1% to
1.9% across initiatives.


Occupational Heterogeneity. Figure 7, Panel (b), splits the effects of chatbot adoption
on mobility by survey occupation.19 Positive effects appear in multiple occupations, but
are strongest and most statistically significant among IT supporters, and to some extent,
office clerks. These are occupations where individual workers likely have more flexibility
in choosing their toolset, allowing newcomers to take advantage of AI chatbots. In
contrast, financial advisors and customer support specialists often work with established
IT systems, making it harder for newcomers to compensate for missing skills by using
chatbots on an individual basis. These patterns align with Dillon et al. (2025), who show
that workers primarily adopt Microsoft Copilot for tasks where they can use the tools
without coordinating with others. Finally, the absence of switching effects in licensed
occupations—such as teachers and accountants, which require several years of prior
education—strengthens the interpretation that the mobility effects observed elsewhere
reflect a genuine link between chatbot use and newcomers acquiring occupation-relevant
skills.


Job Characteristics for Adopters Who Switch Occupations. Adopters who switch
occupations are particularly informative for two reasons. First, occupational switching
is the only administrative outcome that moves with workers’ chatbot adoption. Second,
since job switching is a core source of labor market progression, the characteristics of these
  18
     The effect magnitudes in Figure 6, Panel (b) are generally smaller than the endline estimates in
Figure 5, Panel (c). This reflects that the pooled specifications estimate trends over the full sample
period, absorbing part of the post-period treatment variation (see Equation (3)).
  19
     Because survey respondents, by construction, are employed in the survey occupations at the time of
sampling (June 2024), the worker-level adoption analysis is primarily suited for studying occupational
switching into these occupations. In Section 3.4, we examine potential displacement effects out of the
survey occupations by studying incumbent workers—those employed in the survey occupations prior to
the arrival of AI chatbots—based on their employers’ subsequent adoption of the tools.



                                                  28
