    Panel (c) considers incumbent workers—those employed at the workplace before
the arrival of AI chatbots—whose labor market outcomes we can track regardless of
whether they remain with or separate from their original firm.22 These workers have
not experienced differential changes in hours. Figure F.9 shows that they have also not
experienced differential occupational mobility. Hence, while Section 3.3 shows that workers’
use of AI chatbots has helped them move into new occupations, employers’ adoption of
AI chatbots has not displaced workers out of their original occupations.
    Panel (d) examines overall rates of job creation and destruction, showing that job
churn at workplaces that encourage AI chatbots has remained stable, with confidence
bands ruling out effects on monthly job churn rates greater than 0.5% of employment.


Heterogeneity by Intensity of Adoption. Figure 6, Panels (c) and (d) examine the
effects of additional initiatives in enterprise chatbots and training. Although Section 2.2
shows that uptake and reported benefits are highest when the full suite of initiatives is
implemented, we find no detectable impacts on overall employment or early-career jobs at
these workplaces. Similarly, Appendix F.4 shows that incumbent workers and job churn
have not changed differentially at workplaces with these investments.


Occupational Heterogeneity. Figure 7, Panels (c) and (d) report the estimated
effects of AI chatbots on workplace employment and early-career jobs across the 11
occupations in our sample. Confidence bands are again wide for these occupation-specific
estimates and should therefore be interpreted with caution. Nonetheless, we find no
statistically significant effects in any occupation, and point estimates are generally near
zero.23 Even between our most contrasting groups—software developers and marketers
(with flexible labor rules) versus teachers (with collective bargaining)—we observe no
systematic differences in employment impacts. Moreover, while Appendix D.2 documents
aggregate declines in early-career jobs in several of our exposed occupations, including
  22
     This analysis of incumbent workers resembles the research designs of Autor et al. (2014); Walker
(2013).
  23
     Appendix F.4 similarly shows null results for job churn and worker sorting.


                                                 31
