suggest a channel through which AI chatbots may deliver broader earnings effects as
adoption deepens (Kleven et al., 2025).


3.4       Workplace Employment

Concerns have been raised that generative AI is already displacing workers, particularly
those early in their careers. Indeed, Appendix D.2 documents aggregate declines in
early-career employment in several of our exposed occupations in Denmark, mirroring
patterns documented in the United States (Brynjolfsson, Chandar and Chen, 2025). A
key advantage of our data, however, is that we can split these employment trends by
whether firms have actually adopted generative AI.
       Panel (a) shows that workplaces encouraging chatbot use have seen no differential
change in total hours after the arrival of AI chatbots.20 Our estimates are precise, ruling
out effects larger than 2%.
       Crucially, Panel (b) shows that the decline in early-career jobs is not driven by firms
adopting AI chatbots. Difference-in-differences estimates show no differential changes
in the employment share of early-career workers at adopting workplaces, with estimates
precise enough to rule out effects greater than a third of a percentage point. These bounds
imply that AI adoption can account for at most a small fraction of the aggregate declines
in early-career employment documented in Appendix D.2—declines whose connection to
generative AI is itself debated (Frank et al., 2026; Iscenko and Curto Millet, 2026).21
       Beyond levels of employment, AI chatbots may alter the composition of labor demand.
Even with constant employment levels, adopting and operating new tools may require
workers with different skills, leading firms to hire new workers at the expense of incumbents
(Bessen et al., 2023). At the same time, assistance from AI chatbots could instead help
retain workers (Brynjolfsson, Li and Raymond, 2025).
  20
    Appendix F.4 shows that wage bills are similarly flat.
  21
    About 43% of workplaces encourage chatbot use (Figure 1). Even if all encouraged workplaces
experienced the largest decline consistent with our confidence intervals, chatbots would account for at
most a 0.43 × 0.33 ≈ 0.14 percentage point decline in the aggregate early-career share—small relative
to the baseline share of about 8% (Table D.1) and the aggregate decline of about 0.6 percentage points
between October 2022 and December 2024 implied by Figure D.2.


                                                  30
