Nonetheless, coworker reports are tightly correlated within workplaces, and Appendix F.6
shows that our findings are robust to using coworker reports to measure employer initiatives,
supporting their interpretation as workplace-wide policies.


2.2       Worker Adoption and Reported Benefits

Figure 2 shows how AI chatbot adoption varies with employer initiatives for a typical
worker. The top estimate (No Initiative) highlights the bottom-up nature of chatbot
diffusion: even among workers whose employers neither encourage chatbot use, provide
an enterprise chatbot, nor offer training, about 41% have used AI chatbots at work at
least once, and 7% use them daily.
       Despite this high baseline, employer initiatives are associated with substantially higher
adoption. Implemented individually, Encouraged use, Enterprise chatbots, and Training
each raise extensive-margin take-up rates to 76%, 57%, and 69%, respectively. Encouraged-
use policies are associated with especially high intensive usage, with daily use reaching
18%.
       Table 1 shows that encouraged-use policies are not only associated with higher chatbot
usage (Column 1-2), they are also consistently associated with users reporting greater
time savings, improved quality, and enhanced creativity (Columns 3-6).8
       Finally, as the bottom row of Figure 2 shows, adoption peaks when all three—
encouragement, enterprise chatbots, and training—are in place: 93% of workers in such
settings report having used AI chatbots at work, and 28% use them daily.


Discussion. The finding that adoption and reported benefits are greatest when AI
chatbots are combined with employer initiatives aligns with a large literature on comple-
mentarities between new technologies and organizational investments, including people
management practices (Bloom, Sadun and Reenen, 2012; Brynjolfsson and Hitt, 2000).
   8
    By contrast, training and enterprise tools—when implemented without encouragement—are associated
with smaller reported gains. This pattern is consistent with these initiatives being aimed at mitigating
misuse rather than enhancing productivity. Supporting this interpretation, Section 2.3 shows that AI
Ethics & Compliance tasks are especially prevalent among workers who have received employer-provided
training.


                                                  13
