1       Introduction
The release of ChatGPT in November 2022 marked the beginning of large-scale
diffusion of large language models (LLMs) around the world. Within months, mil-
lions of workers gained access to tools capable of drafting documents, writing code,
analyzing data, and performing countless other cognitive tasks that previously re-
quired human expertise. This rapid integration into workplace workflows has gen-
erated widespread anxiety about the future of work, technological unemployment,
and economic disruption, with some early evidence showing large productivity gains
(Brynjolfsson, Li and Raymond, 2025; Noy and Zhang, 2023).
    This uncertainty reflects a potential shift in the nature of this technological
innovation. Unlike previous technologies that predominantly displaced routine tasks
in lower- and middle-skilled occupations (Autor, 2015; Autor et al., 2003), LLMs
possess capabilities that extend across the entire skill distribution, with the potential
to affect highly skilled professional and analytical roles as well (Eloundou et al.,
2024). Estimates suggest that around 80% of the U.S. workforce could see at least
10% of their tasks affected, with exposure rising in higher-income occupations on
average (Eloundou et al., 2024). As such, the introduction of generative AI raises
important questions about whether LLMs will erode job security, depress white-
collar wages, and increase or decrease inequality.
    To examine these questions, we use detailed UK labor market data from Reve-
lio Labs, covering millions of firms and job postings between 2021 and 2025. Our
identification strategy exploits the sudden and arguably exogenous introduction of
ChatGPT in November 2022. The impact of this shock varied across firms and
industries depending on their occupational mix and the extent to which core ac-
tivities are susceptible to LLM automation. We measure this heterogeneity using
the occupational level LLM exposure scores developed by Eloundou et al. (2024),
who evaluate 19,265 detailed work activities from the O*NET database using both
human annotators and GPT-4 to determine whether LLM assistance could reduce
task completion time by at least 50% while maintaining quality. These exposure
scores allow us to quantify the share of tasks within each occupation, or the share
of jobs within each firm that can be performed by LLMs.1
    1
    Their measure strongly correlates with other LLM exposure measures (see e.g. Tomlinson et al.,
2025; Hampole et al., 2025).


                                                2
