    To examine how firms adjust their hiring strategies in response to LLM exposure,
we combine our firm-level exposure measures with job posting data. To do so, we
estimate Equation (3) with an indicator for whether firm i posted any job listings
in month t as the outcome variable. This binary outcome captures the extensive
margin of total hiring activity. We then re-estimate Equation (4) separately for each
of 50 job categories.
    For our occupation-level analysis of job posting dynamics, we estimate an anal-
ogous event study specification:

                           30
                           X
                  Yot =            βτ · Exposureo × 1[t=τ ] + γo + δt + ϵot        (5)
                          τ =−15

    where Yot denotes outcomes for occupation o in month t, including log job posting
volumes, posted salaries, and salary dispersion within occupations. Exposureo is
the occupation’s LLM exposure score from Eloundou et al. (2024). We include
occupation fixed effects γo and year-by-month fixed effects δt with standard errors
clustered at the occupation level. We also estimate an analogous static specification
of Equation (4) at the occupation level.
    Our identification strategy relies on the parallel trends assumption: absent Chat-
GPT’s introduction, labor market outcomes would have evolved similarly across
firms and occupations with different LLM exposure levels, conditional on our fixed
effects structure. Several features of our design help with the interpretation of our
estimates as causal. First, our exposure measures are predetermined using data from
before November 2022, eliminating concerns about reverse causality where employ-
ment changes might influence measured exposure. Second, the sudden and largely
unanticipated public release of ChatGPT provides a clear temporal shock to LLM
availability. Third, our event study analyses test and confirm parallel pre-treatment
trends across analyses.
    Furthermore, we perform a large set of robustness checks to test the validity of
our findings across different specifications and modeling choices. We re-estimate our
analyses using different fixed effects. We examine the validity of our finding of de-
creased junior hiring through a highly restrictive within-firm triple-difference model
using a firm-by-month-by-seniority panel that includes firm-by-period fixed effects
absorbing all time-varying firm-level shocks. We test the sensitivity of our results to


                                               12
