reductions of 4.0 percent (p = 0.030) and salary declines of £476 (p < 0.001).


4.4     Robustness Checks
We conduct several robustness tests to assess the sensitivity of our results to alterna-
tive specifications and sample restrictions. First, we examine whether our findings
depend on the fixed effects structure. Tables A7 and A8 present firm-level results
using year-by-month fixed effects instead of industry-by-year-by-month fixed effects,
while Table A9 replicates our occupation-level analysis using job category-by-period
fixed effects. Despite these alternative specifications, all main conclusions persist:
low-seniority employment declines at exposed firms, hiring decreases are, if anything
larger, and occupation-level job postings and salaries fall significantly with exposure.
    Second, we go one step further to address potential endogeneity concerns, and
implement an extremely restrictive within-firm specification. To do so, we con-
struct a firm-by-month-by-seniority panel that measures the number of people at
low, medium, and high seniority levels working in a given firm in a given month.9 We
then estimate a triple-difference model that interacts our post-ChatGPT dummy,
firm-level LLM exposure, and seniority indicators, using the mid-seniority group
as our reference group. This specification includes firm-by-period fixed effects,
which absorb all time-varying firm-level shocks such as changes in profits, financing
costs, industry conditions, management, or any other factor affecting the entire firm
that might be correlated with both LLM exposure and employment decisions. We
additionally include firm-by-seniority fixed effects (controlling for stable workforce
composition preferences) and seniority-by-period fixed effects (capturing aggregate
seniority-level trends). The results in Table A10 show strong evidence that em-
ployment declines concentrate in low-seniority positions: relative to mid-seniority
workers, low-seniority employment at high-exposure firms contracts by an additional
0.7 percent (p < 0.001), while high-seniority positions show no significant differen-
tial effect. This result confirms the finding that LLM adoption disproportionately
affects junior positions (see also Brynjolfsson, Chandar and Chen, 2025; Lichtinger
and Hosseini Maasoum, 2025).
   9
    Out of 7 seniority classifications in the Revelio Labs data, we classify the lowest two categories
as junior (59% of jobs), the next two categories as mid (26%) and the highest three categories as
senior (15%).



                                                 25
