1       Introduction

A popular method to estimate the effect of a treatment on an outcome is to compare over time
groups experiencing different evolutions of their exposure to treatment. In practice, this idea is
implemented by estimating regressions that control for group and time fixed effects. Hereafter,
we refer to those as two-way fixed effects (FE) regressions. We conducted a survey, and found
that 20% of all empirical articles published by the American Economic Review (AER) between
2010 and 2012 have used a two-way FE regression to estimate the effect of a treatment on an
outcome. When the treatment effect is constant across groups and over time, such regressions
estimate that effect under the standard “common trends” assumption. However, it is often
implausible that the treatment effect is constant. For instance, the minimum wage’s effect on
employment may vary across US counties, and may change over time. This paper examines the
properties of two-way FE regressions when the constant effect assumption is violated.
We start by assuming that all observations in the same (g, t) cell have the same treatment and
that the treatment is binary, as is for instance the case when the treatment is a county-level law.
We consider the regression of Yi,g,t , the outcome of unit i in group g at period t on group fixed
effects, period fixed effects, and Dg,t , the treatment in group g at period t. Let βbf e denote the
coefficient of Dg,t , and let βf e denote its expectation. Under the common trends assumption, we
show that βf e is equal to a weighted sum of the treatment effect in each treated (g, t) cell:
                                                                  
                                                   X
                                     βf e = E           Wg,t ∆g,t  .                           (1)
                                                      (g,t):Dg,t =1

∆g,t is the average treatment effect (ATE) in group g and period t and the weights Wg,t s sum
to one but may be negative. Negative weights arise because βbf e is a weighted sum of several
difference-in-differences (DID), which compare the evolution of the outcome between consecutive
time periods across pairs of groups. However, the “control group” in some of those comparisons
may be treated at both periods. Then, its treatment effect at the second period gets differenced
out by the DID, hence the negative weights.
The negative weights are an issue when the ATEs are heterogeneous across groups or periods.
Then, one could have that βf e is negative while all the ATEs are positive. For instance, 1.5 ×
1 − 0.5 × 4, a weighted sum of 1 and 4, is strictly negative. Using the data set of Gentzkow
et al. (2011), we find that 40% of the weights attached to βf e are negative, so βf e is not robust
to heterogeneous effects.1
Researchers may want to know how serious that issue is in the application they consider. We
show that conditional on all treatments, the absolute value of the expectation of βbf e divided by
    1
     Gentzkow et al. (2011) do not estimate βf e , but βf d , the treatment coefficient in the first-difference regression
defined below. 46% of the weights attached to βf d are strictly negative.


                                                            2
