    one’s class, which varies within (school,grade,year) cells.

30. Chaney et al. (2012), The Collateral Channel: How Real Estate Shocks Affect
    Corporate Investment. Table 5.
    In regression Equation (1), the dependent variable is the value of investment in firm i and
    year t divided by the lagged book value of properties, plants, and equipments (PPE), and
    the explanatory variables are firm and time fixed effects and the market value of firm i
    in year t divided by its lagged PPE, and some controls. This regression corresponds to
    Regression 1, with some controls. The stable groups assumption is presumably satisfied:
    it is likely that between each pair of consecutive years, there are firms whose market value
    divided by their lagged PPE does not change. This is a sharp design.

31. Aaronson et al. (2012), The Spending and Debt Response to Minimum Wage
    Hikes. Tables 1, 2, and 5.
    In regression Equation (1), the outcome variable is, say, income of household i at period t,
    and the explanatory variables are household and time fixed effects, and the minimum wage
    in the state where household i lives in period t. This regression corresponds to Regression
    1. The stable groups assumption is satisfied: between each pair of consecutive periods,
    there are states where the minimum wage does not change. This is a sharp design.

32. Brambilla et al. (2012), Exports, Export Destinations, and Skills. Table 5.
    In the regression in, say, the first column of Table 2, the dependent variable is a measure
    of skills in the labor force employed by firm i in industry j at period t, and the explanatory
    variables are firm and industry × period fixed effects, the ratio of exports to sales in firm
    i at period t, and some controls. This regression corresponds to Regression 1, with some
    controls. The stable groups assumption is presumably satisfied: it is likely that between
    each pair of consecutive periods, there are firms whose ratio of exports to sales does not
    change. This is a sharp design.

33. Faye and Niehaus (2012), Political Aid Cycles. Table 3, Columns 4 and 5, and
    Tables 4 and 5.
    In regression Equation (2), the dependent variable is the amount of donations received by
    receiver r from donor d in year t, and the explanatory variables are donor × receiver fixed
    effects, an indicator for whether there is an election in country r in year t, a measure of
    alignment between the ruling political parties in countries r and d at t, and the interaction
    of the election indicator and the measure of alignment. This regression corresponds to
    Regression 1. The stable groups assumption is presumably not satisfied: it is unlikely that
    there are donor-receiver pairs that are perfectly unaligned. This is a sharp design.




                                              21
