Proposition S1 If Assumptions 1 and S1 hold and Ng,2 /Ng,1 does not vary across g, then3
                                       TR             Dg,2 − D.,2
                                      wg,2 = PG       Ng,2
                                                                            .
                                                           (D     − D    )2
                                                  g=1 N1      g,2    .,2

Proposition S1 shows that in the heterogeneous adoption design, βf e assigns negative weights
to the period-two ATT of groups with a mean treatment lower than the mean treatment in the
full population. The reason why negative weights arise is intuitive. With two periods, the FE
regression is equivalent to a regression of the first difference of the outcome on the period-two
treatment in each group. This regression compares the evolution of the outcome in more- and
less-treated groups. Doing so, it subtracts the treatment effect of the less-treated groups, hence
the negative weights. Negative weights are a concern if the ATTs of the less- and more-treated
groups systematically differ. This could be the case if treatment is determined by a Roy selection
model. Then, the groups with the highest proportion of treated units could also be those where
the ATT is the highest. On the other hand, if the proportion of treated units is randomly
assigned to each group, negative weights are not a concern.4
The DIDM estimator can also be generalized to fuzzy designs, see point 2 of Theorem S1 in the
Web Appendix of de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2018) for further details.


2.2     Application to Enikolopov et al. (2011)

Enikolopov et al. (2011) study the effect of NTV, an independent TV channel introduced in
1996 in Russia, on the share of the electorate voting for opposition parties. NTV’s coverage
rate was heterogeneous across subregions: while a large fraction of the population received NTV
in urbanized subregions, a smaller fraction received it in more rural subregions. The authors
estimate the FE regression: they regress the share of votes for opposition parties in the 1995
and 1999 elections in Russian subregions on subregion fixed effects, an indicator for the 1999
election, and on the share of the population having access to NTV in each subregion at the
time of the election. In 1995, the share of the population having access to NTV was equal
to 0 in all subregions, while in 1999 it was strictly greater than 0 everywhere. Therefore,
the authors’ research design corresponds exactly to the heterogenous adoption design discussed
above. Enikolopov et al. (2011) find that βbf e = 6.65 (s.e.= 1.40). According to this regression,
increasing the share of the population having access to NTV from 0 to 100% increases the share
of votes for the opposition parties by 6.65 percentage points. Because there are only two time
periods in the data and the regression is not weighted by subregions’ populations, βbf e = βbf d .
We use the twowayfeweights Stata package, downloadable with its help file from the SSC
repository, to compute the weights attached to βbf e . In 1995, all the weights are equal to zero
  3
      Under Assumption S1, Dg,1 = 0, so wg,1 TR
                                                does not enter in the decomposition in Theorem 1.
  4
      Corollaries 1 and 2 extend directly to fuzzy settings.


                                                        4
