Our paper is related to the DID literature. Our main result generalizes Theorem 1 in de Chaise-
martin and D’Haultfœuille (2018). When the data has two groups and two periods, the Wald-
DID estimand considered therein is equal to βf e and βf d . Our results on βf e and βf d are
thus extensions of that theorem to the case with multiple periods and groups.3 Moreover, our
DIDM estimator is related to the Wald-TC estimator with many groups and periods proposed in
de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2018), and to the multi-period DID estimator proposed by
Imai and Kim (2018). In Section 4, we explain the differences between those three estimators.
More recently, Borusyak and Jaravel (2017), Abraham and Sun (2018), Athey and Imbens (2018),
Callaway and Sant’Anna (2018), and Goodman-Bacon (2018) study the special case of staggered
adoption designs, where the treatment of a group is weakly increasing over time. Those papers
derive some important results specific to that design that we do not consider here. Still, some
of the results in those papers are related to ours, and we describe precisely those connections
later in the paper. The most important dimension on which our paper differs from those is
that our results apply to any two-way fixed effects regressions, not only to those with staggered
adoption. In our survey of the AER papers estimating two-way fixed effects regressions, less
than 10% have a staggered adoption design. This suggests that while staggered adoptions are
an important research design, they may account for a relatively small minority of the applications
where two-way fixed effects regressions have been used.
The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces the set-up. Section 3 presents our
decomposition results. Section 4 introduces our alternative estimator. Section 5 briefly describes
some of the extensions covered in our Web Appendix. Section 6 presents our survey of the articles
published in the AER, and our two empirical applications.


2       Set up

One considers observations that can be divided into G groups and T periods. For every (g, t) ∈
{1, ..., G} × {1, ..., T }, let Ng,t denote the number of observations in group g at period t, and let
       P
N = g,t Ng,t be the total number of observations. The data may be an individual-level panel
or repeated cross-section data set where groups are, say, individuals’ county of birth. The data
could also be a cross-section where cohort of birth plays the role of time. For instance, Duflo
(2001) compares the schooling of different cohorts in Indonesia, some of which were exposed to
a school construction program. It is also possible that for all (g, t), Ng,t = 1, e.g. a group is one
individual or firm. All of the above are special cases of the data structure we consider.
One is interested in measuring the effect of a treatment on some outcome. Throughout the paper
    3
   In fact, a preliminary version of our main result appeared in a working paper version of de Chaisemartin and
D’Haultfœuille (2018) (see Theorems S1 and S2 in de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfoeuille, 2015).


                                                      4
