    effects, region specific time effects, and the job tenure of individual j. The death rate of
    establishments in industry i in period t and region r is used as an instrument for the job
    tenure of individual j. This regression is the 2SLS version of Regression 2 with controls. The
    stable groups assumption is presumably satisfied: between each pair of consecutive years, it
    is likely that there are some industry × region pairs where the death rate of establishments
    does not change. This a fuzzy design: the instrument of interest is whether a person’s
    former employee closed down over the current year, which varies within (industry,year)
    cells.

19. Gentzkow et al. (2011), The Effect of Newspaper Entry and Exit on Electoral
    Politics. Tables 2 and 3.
    In regression Equation (2), the dependent variable is the change in voter turnout in county c
    between elections year t and t-1, and the explanatory variables are state × year effects, and
    the change in the number of newspapers in county c between t and t-1. This regression
    corresponds to Regression 2 with controls. The stable groups assumption is satisfied:
    between each pair of consecutive years, there are some counties where the number of
    newspapers does not change. This is a sharp design.

20. Bloom et al. (2012), Americans Do IT Better: US Multinationals and the
    Productivity Miracle. Table 2, Columns 6-8.
    In the regression in, say, Column 6 of Table 2, the dependent variable is the log of output
    per worker in firm i in period t, while the explanatory variables are firms and time fixed
    effects, the log of the amount of IT capital per employee ln(C/L), the interaction of ln(C/L)
    and an indicator for whether the firm is owned by a US multinational, the interaction of
    ln(C/L) and an indicator for whether the firm is owned by a non-US multinational, and
    some controls. This regression is similar to Regression 1 with some controls, except that
    it has three treatment variables. The stable groups assumption is presumably satisfied:
    between each pair of consecutive years, it is likely that there are some firms where the
    amount of IT capital per employee ln(C/L) does not change. This is a sharp design.

21. Simcoe (2012), Standard Setting Committees: Consensus Governance for Shared
    Technology Platforms. Table 4, Columns 1-3.
    In regression Equation (5), the dependent variable is a measure of time to consensus for
    project i submitted to committee j, while the explanatory variables are an indicator for
    projects submitted to the standards track, a measure of distributional conflict, the inter-
    action of the standards track and distributional conflict, and some controls variables. This
    regression is similar to Regression 1 with some controls, except that it has a measure of
    distributional conflict instead of committee fixed effects. The stable groups assumption is
    presumably not satisfied: it is unlikely that there is any committee where the measure of


                                              18
