    Web appendix of “Two-way fixed effects estimators with
             heterogeneous treatment effects”
                      Clément de Chaisemartin∗                  Xavier D’Haultfœuille†

                                             February 13, 2020


                                                    Abstract
              In this web appendix, we first discuss whether common trends necessarily implies ho-
          mogenous treatment effect. Second, we show that the decomposition in Theorem 1 in
          the paper extends to fuzzy designs, to regressions with covariates, to regressions with a
          non-binary treatment, and we derive another decomposition under the supplementary as-
          sumption that the treatment effect does not change over time. Third, we extend the DIDM
          estimator to non-binary treatments. Fourth, we discuss inference. Fifth, we review all the
          papers included in our survey of papers published in the AER between 2010 and 2012 (see
          Section 6 of the paper). Finally, the last section gathers the proofs of all the additional
          results in this Web Appendix.



1        Can common trends hold with heterogeneous treatment effects?

Throughout the paper, we assume that groups experience common trends, but that the effect of
the treatment may be heterogeneous between groups and / or over time. We now discuss two
examples where this may happen. We then argue that the mechanisms behind these examples are
fairly general. Thus treatment effects are often likely to be heterogeneous, even when common
trends are plausible.
First, assume one wants to learn the effect of the minimum wage on the employment levels of
some US counties. For simplicity, let us assume that the minimum wage can only take two
values, a low and a high value. Also, let us assume that there are only two periods, the 90s
and the 2000s. Between these two periods, the amount of competition from China for the US
industry increased substantially. Thus, for the common trends assumption to hold for counties
A and B, the effect of that increase in competition should be the same on averge in those two
    ∗
        University of California at Santa Barbara, clementdechaisemartin@ucsb.edu
    †
        CREST, xavier.dhaultfoeuille@ensae.fr


                                                         1
