for some vector γ and constant λt , and where Xg = (Xg,1 , ..., Xg,T ). Importantly, when the
covariates are group-specific linear trends, the equation above is equivalent to

                       E (Yg,t (0)|Dg , Xg ) − E (Yg,t−1 (0)|Dg , Xg ) = γg + λt ,

meaning that from t − 1 to t, the evolution of Y (0) in group g should deviate from its group-
specific linear trend γg by an amount λt common to all groups. Second, the residual εg,t in the
weights in Theorem 1 has to be replaced by εX   g,t , the residual of observations in cell (g, t) in the
regression of Dg,t on group and period fixed effects and Xg,t . Some of the corresponding weights
may still be negative, as in Theorem 1. Overall, two-way fixed effects regressions with covariates
may rely on a more plausible common trends assumptions than those without covariates, but
they still require that the treatment effect be homogeneous, across time and between groups.
Third, we show that under the common trends assumption and the assumption that the ATE
of a (g, t) cell does not change over time, βf e and βf d identify weighted sums of the ATEs of the
(g, t) cells whose treatment changes between t − 1 and t. In sharp designs, the weights attached
to βf d are all positive, while for βf e , the same only holds in staggered adoption designs.
Fourth, we show that our DIDM estimator can easily be extended to non-binary, discrete treat-
ments. Then, we define it as a weighted average of DIDs comparing the evolution of the outcome
in groups whose treatment went from d to d0 between t − 1 and t and in groups with a treatment
of d at both dates, across all possible values of d, d0 , and t.
Finally, our twowayfeweights, fuzzydid, and did_multiplegt Stata packages can handle all
of those extensions.


6     Applicability, and applications

6.1    Applicability

We conducted a review of all papers published in the American Economic Review (AER) between
2010 and 2012 to assess the importance of two-way fixed effects regressions in economics. Over
these three years, the AER published 337 papers. Out of these 337 papers, 33 or 9.8% of them
estimate the FE or FD Regression, or other regressions resembling closely those regressions.
When one withdraws from the denominator theory papers and lab experiments, the proportion
of papers using these regressions raises to 19.1%.




                                                   19
