    In regression Equation (1), the dependent variable is urbanization in polity j at time t,
    while the explanatory variables are time and polity fixed effects, and the number of years
    of French presence in polity j interacted with the time effects. This regression corresponds
    to Regression 1. The stable groups assumption is satisfied as there are several polities that
    did not experience any year of French presence. This is a sharp design.

15. Baum-Snow and Lutz (2011), School Desegregation, School Choice, and Changes
    in Residential Location Patterns by Race. Tables 2 to 6.
    In regression Equation (1), the dependent variable is, say, whites public school enrolment
    in MSA j in year t, while the explanatory variables are MSA and region × time fixed ef-
    fects, and an indicator for whether MSA j is desegregated. This regression corresponds to
    Regression 1 with controls. The stable groups assumption is satisfied: between each pair
    of consecutive years, there are MSAs whose desegregation status does not change. This is
    a sharp design.

16. Dinkelman (2011), The Effects of Rural Electrification on Employment: New
    Evidence from South Africa. Tables 4 and 5 Columns 5-8, Table 8 Columns 3-4, Table
    9 Column 2, and Table 10 Columns 2, 4, and 6.
    In regression Equation (3), the dependent variable is, say, the first difference of the female
    employment rate for community j between periods 1 and 2, and the explanatory variables
    are district fixed effects, the change of electrification status of community j between periods
    1 and 2, and some statistical controls. The land gradient in community j is used as an
    instrument for the change in electrification. This regression corresponds to the 2SLS version
    of Regression 2 with some controls. The stable groups assumption is presumably satisfied:
    it is likely that there are communities whose land gradient is 0. This is a sharp design.

17. Enikolopov et al. (2011), Media and Political Persuasion: Evidence from Rus-
    sia. Table 3.
    In regression Equation (5), the dependent variable is the share of votes for party j in
    election-year t and subregion s, and the explanatory variables are subregion and election
    fixed effects, and the share of people having access to NTV in subregion s in election-year t.
    This regression corresponds to Regression 1. The stable groups assumption is not satisfied:
    the share of people having access to NTV strictly increases in all regions between 1995 and
    1999, the two elections used in the analysis. This a fuzzy design: the treatment of interest
    is whether a person has access to NTV, which varies within (subregion,year) cells.

18. Fang and Gavazza (2011), Dynamic Inefficiencies in an Employment-Based
    Health Insurance System: Theory and Evidence. Tables 2, 3, 5, and 6, Column 3.
    In regression Equation (7), the dependent variable is the health expenditures of individual
    j working in industry i in period t and region r, and the explanatory variables are individual

                                               17
