2. Duggan and Morton (2010), The Effect of Medicare Part D on Pharmaceutical
   Prices and Utilization. Tables 2 and 3.
   In regression Equation (1), the dependent variable is the change in the price of drug j
   between 2003 and 2006, the explanatory variables are the Medicare market share for drug
   j in 2003, and some control variables. This regression corresponds to Regression 2, with
   some control variables. The stable groups assumption is presumably not satisfied: it seems
   unlikely that there are drugs whose Medicare market share in 2003 is equal to 0. This is
   a sharp design.

3. Aizer (2010), The Gender Wage Gap and Domestic Violence. Table 2.
   In regression Equation (2), the dependent variable is the log of female assaults among
   females of race r in county c and year t, and the explanatory variables are race, year,
   county, race × year, race × county, and county × year fixed effects, as well as the gender
   wage gap in county c, year t, and race r, and some control variables. This regression
   is a “three-way fixed effects” version of Regression 1, with some control variables. The
   stable groups assumption is presumably satisfied: it seems likely that between each pair
   of consecutive years, there are counties where the gender wage gap does not change. This
   is a fuzzy design: the treatment of interest is the gender wage gap in a couple (see the
   bargaining model in Appendix 1), which varies within (year,county) cells.

4. Algan and Cahuc (2010), Inherited Trust and Growth. Figure 4.
   Figure 4 presents a regression of changes in income per capita from 1935 to 2000 on changes
   in inherited trust over the same period and a constant. This regression corresponds to
   Regression 2. The stable groups assumption is satisfied: there are countries where inherited
   trust does not change from 1935 to 2000. This is a sharp design.

5. Ellul et al. (2010), Inheritance Law and Investment in Family Firms. Table 7.
   In the regressions presented in Table 7, the dependent variable is the capital expenditure
   of firm j in year t, and the explanatory variables are firm fixed effects, an indicator for
   whether year t is a succession period for firm j, some controls, and three treatment variables:
   the interaction of the succession indicator with the level of investor protection in the
   country where firm j is located, the interaction of the succession indicator with the level of
   inheritance laws permissiveness in the country where firm j is located, and the interaction
   of the succession indicator with the level of inheritance laws permissiveness and the level
   of investor protection in the country where firm j is located. This regression is similar
   to Regression 1 with controls, except that it has three treatment variables. The stable
   groups assumption is presumably not satisfied: for instance, it seems unlikely that there
   are countries with no investor protection at all. This is a sharp design.

6. Bustos (2011), Trade Liberalization, Exports, and Technology Upgrading: Ev-

                                              14
