staggered adoption designs, as outside of this case it is more difficult to characterize those cells.
Our characterization relies on the fact that for every t ∈ {2, ..., T }, εf d,g,t = Dg,t − Dg,t−1 −
(D.,t − D.,t−1 ). εf d,g,t is the difference between the change of the treatment in group g between
t − 1 and t, and the average change of the treatment across all groups.

Proposition 2 Suppose that Assumptions 1-2 and 6 hold and for all g, Ng,t does not depend on
t. Then, for all (g, t) such that Dg,t = 1, wf d,g,t < 0 if and only if Dg,t−1 = 1 and D.,t − D.,t−1 >
D.,t+1 − D.,t (with the convention that D.,T +1 = D.,T ).

Proposition 2 shows that for all t ∈ {2, ..., T − 1} such that the increase in the proportion of
treated units is larger from t − 1 to t than from t to t + 1, the period-t ATE of groups already
treated in t − 1 receives a negative weight. Moreover, if, at period T , at least one group becomes
treated, the ATE of groups already treated in T − 1 also receives a negative weight. Therefore,
the treatment effect arising at the date when a group starts receiving the treatment does not
receive a negative weight, only long-run treatment effects do. Then, negative weights are a
concern when instantaneous and long-run treatment effects may differ. Proposition 2 also shows
that the prevalence of negative weights depends on how the number of groups that start receiving
the treatment at date t evolves with t. Assume for instance that this number decreases with
t: many groups start receiving the treatment at date 1, a bit less start at date 2, etc., a case
hereafter referred to as the “more early adopters” case. Then, if Ng,t is constant across (g, t),
D.,t − D.,t−1 is decreasing in t, and all the long-run treatment effects receive negative weights,
except maybe those of period T if D.,T = D.,T −1 . Conversely, assume that the number of groups
that start receiving the treatment at date t increases with t: few groups start receiving the
treatment at date 1, a bit more start at date 2, etc., a case hereafter referred to as the “more
late adopters” case. Then, if Ng,t is constant across (g, t), D.,t − D.,t−1 is increasing in t, and
only the period-T long-run treatment effects receive negative weights. Overall, negative weights
are much more prevalent in the “more early adopters” than in the “more late adopters” case.
We now come back to general
                                sharp
                                       designs where the treatment may not follow a staggered
adoption. Let βf d = E βf d D denote the expectation of βbf d conditional on the vector of
               e            b
treatment assignments D. Just as for βef e , one can show that the minimal value of σ(∆)    e
compatible with βef d and ∆
                          e T R = 0 is σ = |βef d |/σ(wf d ), where
                                          fd

                                                                            1/2
                                               X          Ng,t
                           σ(wf d ) =                         (wf d,g,t − 1)2 
                                                          N1
                                          (g,t):Dg,t =1


is the standard deviation of the wf d -weights. One can also show that σ f d , the minimal value
      e compatible with βef d and ∆
of σ(∆)                           e g,t of a different sign than βef d for all (g, t), has the same
expression as σ f e , except that one needs to replace the weights wg,t by the weights wf d,g,t in its

                                                      13
