    of Care in Child Care Markets. Table 7, Columns 4 and 5.
    In Regression Equation (1), the dependent variable is the outcome for market m in state s
    and year t, and the explanatory variables are state and year fixed effects, various measures
    of regulations in state s in year t, and some controls. This regression corresponds to
    Regression 1 with several treatment variables and with some controls. The stable groups
    assumption is presumably satisfied: between each pair of consecutive years, it is likely that
    there are states whose regulations do not change. This is a sharp design.

11. Mian and Sufi (2011), House Prices, Home Equity-Based Borrowing, and the
    US Household Leverage Crisis. Tables 2 and 3.
    In Regression Equation (1), the dependent variable is the change in homeowner leverage
    from 2002 to 2006 for individual i living in zip code z in MSA m, and the dependent
    variable is the change in the house price for that individual, instrumented by MSA-level
    housing supply elasticity. This regression is the 2SLS version of Regression 2, with some
    controls. The stable groups assumption is presumably not satisfied: it is unlikely that
    some MSAs have an housing supply elasticity equal to 0. This is a sharp design.

12. Wang (2011), State Misallocation and Housing Prices: Theory and Evidence
    from China. Table 5, Panel A.
    In regression Equation (15), the dependent variable is the quantity of housing services
    in household i’s residence in year t, while the explanatory variables are an indicator for
    period t being after the reform, a measure of mismatch in household i, the interaction of
    the measure of mismatch and the time indicator, and some controls. This regression is
    similar to Regression 1 with some controls, except that it has a measure of mismatch in
    household i instead of household fixed effects. The stable groups assumption is presumably
    satisfied: it is likely that some households have a mismatch equal to 0. This is a sharp
    design.

13. Duranton and Turner (2011), The Fundamental Law of Road Congestion: Ev-
    idence from US Cities. Table 5.
    In the regressions presented in, say, the first column of Table 5, the dependent variable
    is the change in vehicle kilometers traveled in MSA s between decades t and t-1, and the
    explanatory variables are the change in kilometers of roads in MSA s between decades
    t and t-1, and decade effects. This regression corresponds to Regression 2. The stable
    groups assumption is presumably satisfied: it is likely that between each pair of consecu-
    tive decades, there are some MSAs where the kilometers of roads do not change. This is a
    sharp design.

14. Acemoglu et al. (2011), The Consequences of Radical Reform: The French
    Revolution. Table 3.

                                              16
