counties, in the counterfactual state of the world where A and B have a low minimum wage at
both dates. For that to be true, the economy of those two counties should be pretty similar.
For instance, if A has a very service-oriented economy, while B has a very industry-oriented
economy, it is unlikely that their employment levels will react similarly to Chinese competition.
Now, if the economies of A and B are similar, they should also have similar effects of the
minimum wage on employment, thus implying that the treatment effect is homogenous between
groups. On the other hand, the treatment effect may vary over time. For instance, the drop in
the employment levels of A and B due to Chinese competition will probably be higher if their
minimum wage is high than if their minimum wage is low. This is equivalent to saying that
the effect of the minimum wage on employment diminishes from the first to the second period:
due to Chinese competition in the second period, the minimum wage may have a more negative
effect on employment then.1
Second, assume one wants to learn the effect of a job training program implemented in some
US counties on participants’ wages. Let us suppose that individuals self-select into the training
according to a Roy model:

                                   Di,g,t = 1{Yi,g,t (1) − Yi,g,t (0) > cg,t },                             (23)

where cg,t represents the cost of the training for individuals in county g and period t. We consider
fuzzy designs such as this one in the next section. Here, the common trends condition requires
that average wages without the training follow the same evolution in all counties. As above,
for this to hold counties used in the analysis should have similar economies, so let us assume
that those counties are actually identical copies of each other: at each period, their distribution
of wages without and with the training is the same. Therefore, (g, t) 7→ E(Yg,t (1) − Yg,t (0)) is
constant. However, cg,t may vary across counties and over time: some counties may subsidize
the training more than others, and some counties may change their subsidies over time. Then,
(g, t) 7→ E(Yi,g,t (1) − Yi,g,t (0)|Di,g,t = 1) will not be constant, despite the fact that all counties
in the sample have similar economies and experience similar trends on their wages.
Overall, when the treatment is assigned at the group × period level as in the minimum wage
example, the economic restrictions underlying the common trends assumption may also imply
homogeneous treatment effect between groups. However, those restrictions usually do not imply
that the treatment effect is constant over time. Moreover, when the treatment is assigned at
the individual level, as in the job training example, the economic restrictions underlying the
common trends assumption neither imply homogeneous treatment effects between groups, nor
homogeneous treatment effects over time.
   1
      To simplify our discussion, in this example we consider only two counties. But in order to estimate consis-
tently average treatment effects in the presence of county-specific shocks, the number of groups should tend to
infinity, as in Section 5 below.


                                                        2
