they over control. Unit-specific trends also increase the weight on units treated at the extremes of

the panel, changing estimates for this reason as well.

          The unilateral divorce analysis provides a striking illustration of how unit-specific trends

can fail because figure 5 shows no pre-trends but strongly time-varying treatment effects. Trends

shrink the estimate so much that its sign changes (0.59, s.e.=1.35). Table 2 shows that changes in

2x2 DD’s account for 90 percent of the difference between estimates with and without trends, and

panel A of figure 10 shows that most of the treated/untreated components are much less negative

with trends, with especially large differences for the terms involving the 1970 states. Panel B of

figure 10 shows that trends reduce the weight on 𝛽𝛽̂𝑘𝑘𝑘𝑘
                                                    2𝑥𝑥2
                                                         terms, and increase the importance of

timing-only comparisons. Since equation (11c) shows that the timing-only terms are already biased

by the time-varying treatment effects, the change in weighting induced by unit-specific trends

exacerbates this bias, accounting for 47 percent of the coefficient difference. Because unit-specific

trends change the treated/untreated terms and give them less weight, the interaction of those two

factors accounts for -36 percent of the overall change in the estimates.

     v.   Group-specific linear pre-trends
A simple strategy to address counterfactual trends is to estimate pre-treatment trends in 𝑌𝑌𝑘𝑘0 directly

and partial them out of the full panel (cf. Bhuller et al. 2013, Goodman-Bacon 2018). This is what

we hope that unit-specific trends do, it does not depend on the treatment effect pattern, and it does

not change the weighting of the 2x2 DD’s. Specifically, using data from before 𝑡𝑡1∗ , one can estimate

a pre-trend in 𝑦𝑦𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖 for each timing group. 39 The slope will equal the linear component of


39
   One could estimate pre-trends for each unit, but this yields identical point estimates to the group-specific pre-trends.
Moreover, group-specific trends reduce the variability of the estimator because trend deviations that would bias unit
specific pre-trends cancel out to some extent when averaged by timing group. This matters because this strategy
extrapolates potentially many periods into the future, magnifiying specification error in the pre-trends. This point
applies to unit-specific linear trend specifications as well. Point estimates are identical when this specification includes
linear trends for each group rather than each unit.

                                                            27
