1302              QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF ECONOMICS


phenomenon—i.e., due to sectoral shifts. After the 1960s, by
contrast, the growth in nonroutine task input was dominated by
within-industry task shifts.
     Trends in both routine cognitive and routine manual tasks
show a similarly striking pattern. Both types of routine task
input increased during the 1960s, due to a combination of be-
tween- and within-industry shifts. In the decades following, how-
ever, input of both routine cognitive and routine manual tasks
sharply declined, and the bulk of these declines was due to with-
in-industry shifts. Moreover, the rate of within-industry decline
increased in each subsequent decade.
     As distinct from the other four task measures, we observe
steady within- and between-industry shifts against nonroutine
manual tasks for the entire four decades of our sample. Since our
conceptual framework indicates that nonroutine manual tasks
are largely orthogonal to computerization, we view this pattern as
neither supportive nor at odds with our model.
     In summary, the trends against routine cognitive and man-
ual tasks and favoring nonroutine cognitive tasks that we seek to
analyze are dominated by within-industry shifts, particularly
from the 1970s forward. We next analyze whether computeriza-
tion can explain these task shifts.17 Because our model makes no
prediction for how computerizing industries will adjust demand
for nonroutine manual tasks, we do not include this variable in
our industry-level analysis below (see Autor, Levy, and Murnane
[2001] for detailed analysis).


                IV. COMPUTERIZATION AND TASK CHANGE:
                    INDUSTRY LEVEL RELATIONSHIPS
     As industries adopt computer technology, our model predicts
that they will simultaneously reduce labor input of routine cog-
nitive and manual tasks and increase labor input of nonroutine
cognitive tasks. We test these hypotheses below.


     17. Our model also implies that the expenditure shares of routine-task-
intensive industries should have increased as r declined. By contrast, the predic-
tion for the employment share of routine-task-intensive industries is ambiguous
since these industries should have differentially substituted computer capital for
labor input. Because our data measure employment, not expenditures, we are
unable to test the implication for expenditure shares. Closely related, computer-
intensive industries should have experienced relatively larger gains in labor
productivity as r declined. Stiroh [2002] presents evidence that this occurred in
the 1990s.
