                SKILL CONTENT OF TECHNICAL CHANGE                         1287

task inputs, routine and nonroutine, that are used to produce
output Q, which sells at price one. Because our discussion
stresses that computers neither strongly substitute nor strongly
complement nonroutine manual tasks, we consider this model to
pertain primarily to routine cognitive and routine manual tasks,
and nonroutine analytic and nonroutine interactive tasks.
    We assume for tractability an aggregate, constant returns to
scale Cobb-Douglas production function of the form,
(1)                  Q 5 ~L R 1 C! 12bL bN, b [ ~0,1!,
where L R and L N are routine and nonroutine labor inputs and C
is computer capital, all measured in efŽciency units. Computer
capital is supplied perfectly elastically at market price r per
efŽciency unit, where r is falling exogenously with time due to
technical advances. The declining price of computer capital is the
causal force in our model.8
     We assume that computer capital and labor are perfect sub-
stitutes in carrying out routine tasks. Cobb-Douglas technology
further implies that the elasticity of substitution between routine
and nonroutine tasks is one, and hence computer capital and
nonroutine task inputs are relative complements. While the as-
sumption of perfect substitutability between computer capital
and routine task input places assumptions A1 and A2 in bold
relief, the only substantive requirement for our model is that
computer capital is more substitutable for routine than nonrou-
tine tasks. Observe that routine and nonroutine tasks are q-
complements; the marginal productivity of nonroutine tasks rises
with the quantity of routine task input, consistent with assump-
tion A3.9
     We assume a large number of income-maximizing workers,
each of whom inelastically supplies one unit of labor. Workers
have heterogeneous productivity endowments in both routine and
nonroutine tasks, with E i 5 [r i ,n i ] and 1 $ r i , n i . 0 @ i. A given
worker can choose to supply r i efŽciency units of routine task
input, n i efŽciency units of nonroutine task input, or any convex

     8. Borghans and ter Weel [2002] offer a related model exploring how the
declining price of computer capital affects the diffusion of computers and the
distribution of wages. A key difference is that the tasks performed by computers
and workers are inseparable in the Borghans-ter Weel model. Accordingly, com-
puterization alters wage levels but does not directly change the allocation of
human labor input across task types. This latter point is the focus of our model
and empirical analysis.
     9. SpeciŽcally, ] 2 Q/]L N ](L R 1 C) 5 b(1 2 b) L bN2 1 /(L R 1 C) b . 0.
