do. These weights, derived from the estimator itself, form the basis of a new balance test that

generalizes the traditional notion of balance between treatment and control groups, and improves

on existing strategies that test between treated/untreated units or early/later treated units.

       Finally, I use the weighted average result to develop simple tools to describe the general

DD design and evaluate why estimates change across specifications. Simply plotting the 2x2 DD’s

against their weight displays heterogeneity in the estimated components and shows which terms

or groups matter most. Summing the weights on the timing comparisons versus treated/untreated

comparisons quantifies “how much” of the variation comes from timing (a common question in

practice). Additionally, the difference between DD estimates across specifications can often be

written as a Oaxaca-Blinder-Kitagawa style decomposition allowing researchers to calculate how

much comes from the 2x2 DD’s, the weights, or the interaction of the two. The source of instability

matters because changes due to different weighting reflect changes in the estimand (not bias),

while changes in the 2x2 DD’s suggest that covariates address confounding. Scatter plots of the

2x2 DD’s (or the weights) from different specifications show which specific terms drive these

differences. I develop this approach for models that weight, use triple-differences, control for unit-

specific time trends (or pre-trends only), and control for disaggregated time fixed effects.

       To demonstrate these methods I replicate Stevenson and Wolfers (2006) two-way fixed

effects DD study of the effect of unilateral divorce laws on female suicide rates. The two-way

fixed effects model suggest that unilateral divorce leads to 3 fewer suicides per million women.

More than a third of the identifying variation comes from treatment timing and the rest comes from

comparisons to states with no reforms during the sample period. Event-study estimates show that

the treatment effects vary strongly over time, however, which biases many of the timing

comparisons. The DD estimate (-3.08) is therefore a misleading summary estimate of the average



                                                   4
