extend recent research on DD models with heterogeneous effects. 7 Assuming equal counterfactual

trends, Abraham and Sun (2018), Borusyak and Jaravel (2017), and de Chaisemartin and

D’HaultfŒuille (2018b) show that two-way fixed effects DD yields an average of treatment effects

across all groups and times, some of which may have negative weights. My results show how these

weights arise from differences in timing and thus treatment variances, facilitating a connection

between models of treatment allocation and the interpretation of DD estimates. 8 I also explain why

the negative weights occur: when already-treated units act as controls, changes in their treatment

effects over time get subtracted from the DD estimate. This negative weighting only arises when

treatment effects vary over time, in which case it typically biases regression DD estimates away

from the sign of the true treatment effect. This does not imply a failure of the underlying design,

but it does caution against the use of a single-coefficient two-way fixed effects specification to

summarize time-varying effects.

         I also show that because regression DD uses group sizes and treatment variances to weight

up simple estimates that each rely on common trends between two groups, its identifying

assumption is a variance-weighted version of common trends between all groups. The extent to

which a group’s differential trend biases the overall estimate equals the difference between how

much weight it gets when it acts as the treatment group and how much weight it gets when it acts

as the control group. When the earliest and/or latest treated units have low treatment variance, they

can get more weight as controls than treatments. In designs without untreated units they always


7
  Early research in this area made specific observations about stylized specifications such as models with no unit fixed
effects (Bitler, Gelbach, and Hoynes 2003), or it provided simulation evidence (Meer and West 2013).
8
  Related results on the weighting of heterogeneous treatment effects does not provide this intuition. Abraham and
Sun (2018, p 9) describe the weights in a DD estimate with constant treatment effects as “residual[s] from predicting
treatment status, 𝐷𝐷𝑖𝑖,𝑡𝑡 with unit and time fixed effects.” de Chaisemartin and D’HaultfŒuille (2018b, p 7) and Borusyak
and Jaravel (2017) describe these same weights as coming from an auxiliary regression and Borusyak and Jaravel
(2017, p 10-11) note that “a general characterization of [the weights] does not seem feasible.” Athey and Imbens
(2018) also decompose the DD estimator and develop design-based inference methods for this setting. Strezhnev
(2018) expresses 𝛽𝛽̂ 𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷 as an unweighted average of DD-type terms across pairs of observations and periods.

                                                           3
