       RAMBACHAN AND ROTH               A MORE CREDIBLE APPROACH TO PARALLEL TRENDS                                 2583

accompany the paper.32 Furthermore, these confidence sets are quick to compute. Each sensitiv-
ity analysis plot in the empirical applications below took less than 9 minutes to compute on a
2012 Macbook Pro with a 2.3 GHz Quad-Core Intel Core i7 and 16 GB RAM.

    6.1.3. Sensitivity analyses. Once the researcher has chosen a baseline class of restrictions
on the possible violations of trends (e.g. relative magnitudes bounds  R M ( M̄) or smoothness
bounds SD (M)), we recommend conducting sensitivity analysis over the associated param-
eter ( M̄ ≥ 0 or M ≥ 0, respectively) that governs how different the post-treatment violations




                                                                                                                              Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
of parallel trends can be from the pre-trends. It is natural to report both the sensitivity of the
researcher’s causal conclusion to the choice of this parameter and the “breakdown” parameter
value at which particular hypotheses of interest can no longer be rejected; similar “breakdown”
concepts appear in the partial identification settings of Horowitz and Manski (1995), Kline and
Santos (2013), Manski and Pepper (2018), and Masten and Poirier (2020).33 We illustrate how
one can interpret the magnitudes of the breakdown points in our two empirical illustrations
below.


6.2.    Estimating the incidence of a value-added tax cut
Benzarti and Carloni (2019b, henceforth, BC) study the incidence of a decrease in the value-
added tax (VAT) on restaurants in France. France reduced its VAT on sit-down restaurants from
19.6 % to 5.5 % in July of 2009. BC analyse the impact of this change using a dynamic DiD
design that compares restaurants to a control group of other market services firms that were not
affected by the VAT change, estimating the OLS regression specification
                                       
                              Yit =             βs × 1[t = s] × Di + φi + λt + it ,                                  (19)
                                      s=2008


where Yit is the log of (before-tax) profits for firm i in year t; Di is an indicator for whether
firm i is a restaurant; φi and λt are firm and year fixed effects; and standard errors are clustered
at the regional level. BC’s main finding is that the VAT reduction had a large, positive effect
on restaurant profits. Figure 4 shows the estimated event-study coefficients {β̂s } from specifi-
cation (19) (Benzarti and Carloni, 2019a). We can formally reject the hypothesis that β pr e = 0
( p < 0.01), as there appears to have been a difference in trends between 2006 and 2007. Nev-
ertheless, the post-treatment coefficients for 2009–2011 appear to be substantially larger in
magnitude than any of the pre-trends coefficients.
    A key concern in this empirical setting is that there may be unobserved, industry-specific
or macroeconomic shocks that would have affected restaurants differently from other market-
services firms even in the absence of a change in VAT. It seems reasonable to impose that
the industry-specific shocks to restaurants in the post-treatment period are not too much larger


         32. The latest version of the R and Stata packages are respectively available at
http://github.com/asheshrambachan/HonestDiD and https://github.com/mcaceresb/stata-honestdid/.
         33. Our main focus in this paper is on constructing robust confidence sets given a particular restriction (M),
rather than inference on the identification breakdown point or breakdown frontier as in e.g. Masten and Poirier (2020).
Note, however, that if we define M ∗ = min M s.t. 0 ∈ S(β, (M)) to be the identification breakdown point for a null
effect, and M̂ ∗ = min M s.t. 0 ∈ C(β̂ n , ˆ n ; (M)) to be the sample breakdown point, then P( M̂ ∗ ≥ M ∗ ) ≥ P(0 ∈
C(β̂ n , ˆ n ; (M ∗ )). It follows that (−∞, M̂ ∗ ] is a valid (1 − α)-level confidence interval for M ∗ provided that our
conditions for size control are satisfied for (M ∗ ). We suspect that our results could be extended to allow for uniform
coverage of the breakdown frontier under additional regularity conditions, but leave this to future work.
