     RAMBACHAN AND ROTH                 A MORE CREDIBLE APPROACH TO PARALLEL TRENDS                                2579
                                                     TABLE 1
                              Summary of expected properties for each simulation design
                                                  Parallel Trends                              Pulse Pre-Trend

                                         SD (M)              S D P B (M)            S D R M ( M̄)          R M ( M̄)
Conditional and Hybrid
Consistent                                                                                                     
Asymptotically (near-)optimal                                                                                  ×
FLCI




                                                                                                                             Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
Consistent                                                         ×                      ×                      ×
Finite-sample near-optimal                                         ×                      ×                      ×




is the average causal effect in the post-treatment periods (θ = τ̄ post ), with qualitatively similar
results.
    For a given choice of , we compute the identified set S(β, ) using the formulas provided
in Lemma 2.1 and calculate the expected excess length for each of the proposed confidence
sets. We benchmark the expected excess length of our proposed confidence sets relative to an
efficiency bound for confidence sets that satisfy the uniform coverage requirement.29 We report
the efficiency ratio of each procedure, which is defined as the ratio of the optimal benchmark
relative to the average excess length for the procedure. All results are calculated over 1,000
simulations per paper.
    We consider four choices of  to highlight the performance of our proposed confidence sets
across a range of conditions: SD (M),  S D P B (M),  R M ( M̄), and  S D R M ( M̄). We consider
simulations under the assumption of zero treatment effects, so that τ = 0 and thus β = δ. We
consider two forms for δ. First, we consider the baseline case of parallel trends (δ = 0). Second,
we consider a “pulse” pre-trend in which δ−1 is non-zero and the remaining elements of δ are
zero. Such a pre-trend might arise in practice if there are confounding policy changes or other
events close to the time of treatment. These different choices of δ allow us to highlight the
relative strengths of the proposed inference procedures. For example, FLCIs have near-optimal
expected length when δ = 0 and  = SD (M), whereas the conditional test has optimal local
asymptotic power under the pulse design when  =  S D P B (M). Table 1 summarizes which of
our theoretical results hold for each of the simulation designs when M and M̄ are non-zero.
    In practice, we find that for SD (M) and  S D P B (M), the results depend on M but are quali-
tatively similar across values of δ. By contrast, for  S D R M ( M̄) and  R M ( M̄), the choice of δ is
more important than the choice of M̄. Therefore, to highlight the most important dimensions for
each of the simulation designs, in the main text of the paper we report results for SD (M) and
 S D P B (M) under different values of M and δ = 0 (parallel trends), whereas for  R M ( M̄) and
 S D R M ( M̄) we vary the magnitude of the pre-treatment pulse δ−1 , holding M̄ = 1 constant. In
the supplementary materials, we report results for additional choices of these parameters.




        29. For choices of  that are convex (e.g. SD (M) and  S D P B (M)), we benchmark the expected excess length
of our proposed confidence sets against a sharp optimal bound over confidence sets that satisfy the finite-sample coverage
requirement (10). This optimal bound is provided in the supplementary materials, and follows as a corollary from results
in Armstrong and Kolesár (2018) on the optimal expected length of a confidence set satisfying the uniform coverage
requirement (10). For choices of  that can be written as the union of convex sets (e.g.  R M ( M̄) and  S D R M ( M̄)),
we compare the expected excess length of our proposed confidence sets against the maximal optimal bound over each
set in the union, which is a potentially non-sharp bound for any confidence set with correct coverage.
