2586                                   REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES




                                                                                                                              Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
                                                     F IGURE 6
          Event-study coefficient {βr } for employment, estimated using the event-study specification in (20).



effects) r years after DTB passage.36 The remaining terms include time-varying controls,
birth-cohort-by-ACS-year fixed effects, and state fixed effects. We normalize the event-study
coefficient β−2 to 0.37 We focus on the results where the outcome is employment.
    Figure 6 plots the estimated event-study coefficients {β̂ r } from specification (20) (Lovenheim
and Willen, 2019b). In the event-study for men (left panel), the pre-period coefficients are rel-
atively close to zero, whereas the longer-run post-period coefficients are negative. By contrast,
the results for women (right panel) suggest a downward-sloping pre-existing trend.
    LW write that, the “primary concern in our identification strategy is the existence of secu-
lar trends that differ systematically with treatment” (p. 318), such as confounding changes in
labour supply or educational attainment. Given that the concern is long-run trends that are likely
to evolve smoothly over time, smoothness restrictions of the form SD seem natural in this con-
text. Indeed, in some of their robustness checks, LW estimate models with group-specific linear
trends, which roughly corresponds with the case SD (0).38 It thus seems natural to consider
relaxations of the form SD (M), which allows for deviations from non-linearity of no more than
M between consecutive periods.
    Figure 7 reports results for the treatment effect on employment for the cohort 15 years after
the passage of a DTB law (as in Table 2 of LW), constructing robust confidence sets about
how non-linear the difference in trends can be. In blue, we plot the original OLS confidence


        36. Treatment timing in LW is staggered, and therefore the results in Sun and Abraham (2020) imply that βr
can be interpreted as a sensible weighted average of causal effects under parallel trends only if treatment effects are
homogeneous across adoption cohorts. For simplicity, we focus on the robustness of the results to violations of parallel
trends using the original specification in LW, which is valid under the assumption of homogeneous treatment effects.
As discussed in Section 2.1, our sensitivity analysis can also be applied to estimators that are robust to treatment effect
heterogeneity.
        37. LW normalize event time −1 to 0, but discuss how cohorts at event time -1 may have been partially treated
since LW impute the year that a student starts school with error. Since our robust confidence sets assume that there is no
causal effect in the pre-period (τ pr e = 0), we instead treat event-time −2 as the reference period in our analysis.
        38. The two are not exactly equivalent, however, because LW include parametric trends into what they call a
“parametric event-study” model (see their specification (2)), which imposes that treatment effects are linear in time
since treatment, rather than the flexible dynamic event-study specification (20).
