     RAMBACHAN AND ROTH                A MORE CREDIBLE APPROACH TO PARALLEL TRENDS                              2573

Proposition 3.3. Suppose Assumptions 2–4 hold. Let θ Pub = sup S(β P , ). Then for any                          > 0,
x > 0, and α < 0.5,
                                                                        
                                                    1  1                    
             lim sup E P ψαC β̂ n , A, d, θ Pub + √ x, ˆ n    − ρα∗ (P, x) = 0,
            n→∞ P∈P                                   n n

where                                                                                                    
                                                                                            1
              ρα∗ (P, x) = lim          sup                Pβ̂ n ∼N (β P , 1        θ ub
                                                                                         + √   x    ∈ C




                                                                                                                          Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
                                                                               P)     P                 α,n
                             n→∞
                                 Cα,n ∈Iα (, n1   P   )
                                                                          n                  n

is the optimal local asymptotic power of a size-α test in the finite sample normal model. An
analogous result holds for the lower bound under the class of distributions where LICQ holds in
direction −l.
    Since the LF-hybrid test rejects whenever the conditional test with size (α − κ)/(1 − κ)
rejects, it is immediate that the local asymptotic power of the LF-hybrid test is at least as good
as the power of the optimal size-((α − κ)/(1 − κ)) test.
Corollary 3.1. Under the conditions of Proposition 3.3,
                                                                               
                                                  1   1
   lim inf inf E P ψκ,αC-L F
                              β̂ n , A, d, θ P + √ x,
                                             ub         ˆ n
                                                                  ∗
                                                               − ρ(α−κ)/(1−κ) (P, x) ≥ 0.
    n→∞ P∈P                                        n n
   We emphasize that Proposition 3.3 and Corollary 3.1 are new, and exploit structure in our
context not contained in the more general setting considered in ARP.

    3.5.2. Discussion and examples. As discussed in Kaido et al. (2021), LICQ and related
constraint qualifications have been used frequently in the partial identification literature. Intu-
itively, LICQ ensures that the bounds of the identified set are differentiable with respect to the
means of the moments (μ̃(θ̄ )), and thus avoids challenges related to estimation and inference for
non-differentiable parameters (Hirano and Porter, 2012). Uniform LICQ conditions have been
invoked recently by Gafarov (2019) and Cho and Russell (2019), and a related Slater constraint
qualification is used in Kaido and Santos (2014). One important distinction between our results
and previous results using LICQ is that we do not require LICQ for our size control results
(Proposition 3.1). Thus, our tests control size even when LICQ fails (and so the bounds may
be non-differentiable), but Proposition 3.3 shows that this does not come at the cost of power
asymptotically when indeed LICQ holds.22
    Figure 1 provides geometric intuition for when LICQ will and will not hold in the case where
T̄ = 2 and the target parameter is the average of the post-treatment effects, θ = 12 (τ1 + τ2 ). In
                               ∗
panel (a), there is a unique τ post (coloured in red) at which two linearly independent moments
                                                                                         ∗
bind, so LICQ is satisfied. LICQ is likewise satisfied in panel (b), where the optimal τ post is not
                                                                                     ∗
unique (a so-called “flat-face” problem). This is because at the indicated values τ post (coloured
in red), there is either one or two linearly independent binding moments. A failure of LICQ is
                                                                             ∗
shown in panel (c). In this example, there are three binding moments at τ post  (coloured in red),
so the binding constraints cannot be linearly independent in R . Such a situation may arise when
                                                                2

there are both smoothness restrictions and sign or shape restrictions that are simultaneously
binding at the boundary of the identified set.


      22. We view this result as loosely parallel to results in the weak identification literature showing that certain
procedures control size under weak identification but are efficient under strong identification (e.g. Moreira, 2003).
