Review of Economic Studies (2023) 90, 2555–2591                                        doi:10.1093/restud/rdad018
© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Review of Economic Studies Limited.
Advance access publication 15 February 2023




      A More Credible Approach to
            Parallel Trends




                                                                                                                     Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
                                        ASHESH RAMBACHAN
                                Microsoft Research New England and MIT
                                                         and
                                            JONATHAN ROTH
                                                 Brown University

          First version received July 2021; Editorial decision October 2022; Accepted January 2023 (Eds.)

              This paper proposes tools for robust inference in difference-in-differences and event-study designs
       where the parallel trends assumption may be violated. Instead of requiring that parallel trends holds
       exactly, we impose restrictions on how different the post-treatment violations of parallel trends can be
       from the pre-treatment differences in trends (“pre-trends”). The causal parameter of interest is partially
       identified under these restrictions. We introduce two approaches that guarantee uniformly valid infer-
       ence under the imposed restrictions, and we derive novel results showing that they have desirable power
       properties in our context. We illustrate how economic knowledge can inform the restrictions on the pos-
       sible violations of parallel trends in two economic applications. We also highlight how our approach can
       be used to conduct sensitivity analyses showing what causal conclusions can be drawn under various
       restrictions on the possible violations of the parallel trends assumption.

       Key words: Difference-in-differences, Event-study, Parallel trends, Robust inference, Sensitivity analysis,
       Partial identification
       JEL codes: C1



                                              1. INTRODUCTION
Researchers using difference-in-differences (DiD) and related methods are often unsure about
the validity of the parallel trends assumption needed for point identification of the causal param-
eter of interest. It has therefore become common practice to assess the plausibility of the parallel
trends assumption by testing for pre-treatment differences in trends (“pre-trends”). Although
pre-trends tests are intuitive, recent research has shown that they may suffer from low power
(Freyaldenhoven et al., 2019; Bilinski and Hatfield, 2020; Kahn-Lang and Lang, 2020; Roth,
2022), and that conditioning the analysis on passing pre-trends tests introduces statistical issues
related to pre-testing (Roth, 2022). How then should researchers proceed when they are unsure
about the validity of the parallel trends assumption?
    This paper proposes methods for robust inference and sensitivity analysis in empirical set-
tings where the parallel trends assumption may not hold. Building on work by Manski and
Pepper (2018), we show that the causal parameter of interest can be (partially) identified under


The editor in charge of this paper was Francesca Molinari.

                                                          2555
