2574                                          REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
  (a)                                             (b)                                            (c)




                                                                                                                                                   Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
                                                    F IGURE 1
             Diagram illustrating when LICQ (Assumption 2) will and will not hold in the case where T̄ = 2.
Note: In each panel, we assume that the rows associated with binding moments are ordered first in the matrix A for ease of notation. The
blue shading denotes the identified set for (τ1 , τ2 ) and the dashed red arrow points in the direction l = ( 12 , 12 ) . In panel (a), LICQ is
                                    ∗
satisfied since there is a unique τ post (coloured in red) at which two linearly independent moments are binding. In panel (b), even though
  ∗
τ post is not unique, LICQ is satisfied as there is either one or two linearly independent binding moments at the values of τ post ∗    coloured
                                                             ∗
in red. In panel (c), there are three binding moments at τ post  (coloured in red), and so LICQ is violated.




    In the three period DiD model (where there are no nuisance parameters, since T̄ = 1), LICQ
is satisfied when the bounds of the identified set are each determined by one moment. This holds
everywhere for SD (M) when M > 0. It holds almost everywhere for  S D P B (M) when M > 0,
although it fails when both the sign restrictions and smoothness restrictions are simultaneously
binding. (For LICQ to hold with non-binding moments slack by at least , i.e. P ∈ P , δ P must
not be local to a point at which LICQ fails.) When M = 0, both the upper and lower bounds for
SD (M) and  S D P B (M) are binding, so LICQ fails.
    More generally, the result in Proposition 3.3 is under the asymptotic regime where the sam-
pling variation grows small relative to the length of the identified set, and thus the binding and
non-binding moments are “far” apart relative to sampling variation. Importantly, it can be shown
that the LICQ condition rules out settings where θ is point identified. Thus, the asymptotics
considered in Proposition 3.3 may not provide a good approximation to the finite-sample per-
formance of the conditional test in settings where θ is point-identified, or when the length of the
identified set is “small” relative to sampling variation.
    We are not aware of results analogous to Proposition 3.3 for any test that controls size in the
finite-sample normal model. Kaido and Santos (2014) provide an efficiency result under a related
Slater constraint qualification condition, but their test does not control size when the constraint
qualification fails. It is worth highlighting that if LICQ holds for a particular set of moments,
                                                                          ∗
then it also holds if one adds moments that are slack at the optimal τ post   . Proposition 3.3 thus
requires that the asymptotic power of the test is not affected by the inclusion of slack moments.
The only other non-trivial tests that we are aware of that control size in the finite-sample normal
model and have this form of insensitivity to slack moments are the tests proposed by Cox and
Shi (2022). An interesting open question is whether the tests proposed by Cox and Shi (2022)
also converge to the power envelope under LICQ.23

   3.5.3. Extensions. Proposition 3.3 is stated for the case when  is a single polyhedron.
                                                       K
An immediate corollary, however, is that when  = k=1     k , the conditional test based on the
union of confidence sets has optimal local asymptotic power when the k that determines the
identified set bounds is unique and satisfies the conditions of Proposition 3.3. This implies,


       23. Extending the results to the Cox and Shi tests is non-trivial given that they use a different test statistic and
construct critical values in a different way.
