2578                                   REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES

    Thus, if Assumption 9 fails, then Cα,n
                                         F LC I
                                                (β̂ n , n ) is inconsistent in the strong sense that it
includes fixed points outside of the identified set with non-vanishing probability. It follows that
there will be some δ ∈  such that the FLCI is inconsistent under δ unless the identified set is
always the same length. Proposition 4.2 is new, and may be relevant for other settings in which
FLCIs are used.
    The intuition for the possible inconsistency of FLCIs is as follows: to ensure that an FLCI
satisfies the coverage requirement (10), its length must be at least supδ̃ pr e ∈ pr e L I D(δ̃ pr e , ).
However, this implies that if in fact L I D(δ pr e , ) < supδ̃ pr e ∈ pr e L I D(δ̃ pr e , ), then the FLCI




                                                                                                                            Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
is strictly longer than the length of the identified set, regardless of the value of n , and thus
some points outside of the identified set must be covered with non-vanishing probability. This
reflects the fact that FLCIs are by construction fixed length, and thus their length does not adapt
to information in the data about the length of the identified set. By contrast, the length of the
conditional/hybrid confidence sets can depend on β̂ pr e and thus “adapts” to the length of the
identified set.
    In the three-period DiD example, Assumption 9 holds everywhere for SD (M) (since the
identified set is always the same length, 2M), for values of δ where the sign restrictions do not
bind for  S D P B (M), and nowhere for the polyhedra that form  R M ( M̄). The restrictiveness of
Assumption 9 thus depends greatly on .
    The results in this section establish that when certain conditions on  are satisfied, optimal
FLCIs are consistent and have desirable finite-sample guarantees in terms of expected length.
FLCIs are thus attractive for our baseline smoothness class SD (M), since they are guaranteed to
be consistent and offer attractive finite-sample guarantees. Our inconsistency result shows, how-
ever, that FLCIs may perform poorly for other choices of  that may be of interest in empirical
applications, such as those that construct bounds using a pre-treatment maximum or incorporate
sign and monotonicity restrictions.


                                           5. SIMULATION STUDY
In this section, we conduct a simulation study to investigate the performance of the discussed
confidence sets across a range of relevant data-generating processes. We find good size control
for all of the procedures, and therefore focus in the main text on a comparison of power to pro-
vide concrete recommendations on the best approach in practice. In the supplementary material,
we present results on size control and other additional simulation results.


5.1.   Simulation design
Our simulations are calibrated using the estimated covariance matrix from the 12 recently-
published papers surveyed in Roth (2022). For any given paper in the survey, we denote by ˆ
the estimated variance-covariance matrix from the event-study in the paper, calculated using the
clustering scheme specified by the authors. For a chosen mean vector β, we simulate event-study
coefficients β̂ s from a normal model, β̂ s ∼ N (β, ˆ ).28 In simulation s, we construct nominal
95% confidence sets for the parameter of interest θ using the pair (β̂ s , ˆ ) for each proposed pro-
cedure. The parameter of interest is the causal effect in the first post-treatment period (θ = τ1 );
in the supplementary material, we present simulation results in which the parameter of interest


       28. We focus on the normal simulations in the main text since it allows for a tractable computation of the optimal
excess length of procedures that control size. In the supplementary material, we show that our procedures perform
similarly in simulations based on the empirical distribution in the original paper.
