    RAMBACHAN AND ROTH           A MORE CREDIBLE APPROACH TO PARALLEL TRENDS                     2557

in the estimation of the event-study coefficients. We introduce two main inference approaches,
with different desirable properties depending on the shape of .
    We first introduce a general inference approach that can accommodate a large class of choices
for . This approach is based on the observation that conducting inference on θ can be cast as the
problem of testing a system of moment inequalities, allowing us to leverage a large economet-
rics literature on moment inequality testing (Canay and Shaikh, 2017 provide a recent review).
The moments have a potentially large number of nuisance parameters that enter linearly, and
we therefore consider an implementation of this approach based on the conditional and hybrid




                                                                                                          Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
approaches of Andrews et al. (forthcoming, henceforth ARP), who considered moment inequal-
ities with this structure. Uniform size control for these tests follows nearly immediately from
results in ARP.
    We then prove that the tests proposed by ARP have some desirable power properties in our
context. First, the conditional and hybrid tests are consistent, in the sense that they have power
approaching 1 against fixed alternatives outside of the identified set. Second, we prove that
the conditional test has optimal local asymptotic power under a linear independence constraint
qualification (LICQ) assumption. As described in Kaido et al. (2021), LICQ and related con-
straint qualifications have been used widely in the partial identification literature, and are often
imposed to ensure size control. By contrast, we show that the ARP conditional test is asymp-
totically valid even when LICQ fails, but has optimal local asymptotic power when LICQ is
satisfied. Intuitively, this result implies that the conditional test will perform well when the bind-
ing and non-binding moments are “far apart” relative to the sampling variation in the data. We
provide several intuitive examples to illustrate when this result will and will not be applicable.
Our result also implies that the ARP hybrid test will have near-optimal local asymptotic power
under LICQ. These power results are new, and exploit additional structure in our context not
contained in ARP.
    Our second approach to inference is based on fixed length confidence intervals (FLCIs)
(Donoho, 1994). FLCIs have desirable finite-sample guarantees for particular s of interest. In
particular, results from Armstrong and Kolesár (2018, 2020b) imply that when  is convex and
centrosymmetric, FLCIs have near-optimal expected length in the finite-sample normal model.
These results are applicable for one of our leading examples, SD , which restricts the smooth-
ness of the difference in trends. In Monte Carlo simulations, we find that the use of such FLCIs
can lead to substantial power gains over the conditional/hybrid approaches for SD when the
length of the identified set is short relative to the sampling variation in the data. This is intuitive
since the asymptotic power guarantees for the conditional/hybrid approaches are in the asymp-
totic regime where sampling uncertainty is small relative to the length of the identified set, in
contrast to the finite-sample guarantees for FLCIs. On the other hand, FLCIs are applicable for
a much smaller class of s: indeed, we show that for many other choices of , they will be
inconsistent in the strong sense that power against fixed points outside the identified set need not
converge to one asymptotically.
    Based on our theoretical results and Monte Carlo simulations, we recommend the ARP
hybrid approach for general forms of , but prefer the FLCI approach in special cases (such
as for SD ) where the conditions for consistency and finite-sample near-optimality are met.
    We recommend that applied researchers use our methods to construct robust confidence sets
under economically-motivated restrictions on how the pre-trends relate to the post-treatment vio-
lations of parallel trends. Our tools can also be used to to conduct sensitivity analyses in which
the researcher reports confidence sets under varying restrictions on the possible differences in
trends. For example, if the researcher suspects that the confounding factors in the post-treatment
periods are similar in magnitude to those in the pre-treatment periods, then it may be reasonable
to impose that the post-treatment violations of parallel trends are no larger than the maximum
