2582                            REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES

M is small, which aligns with the finite-sample near-optimality results in Section 4. However,
FLCIs can perform quite poorly for other classes of .
    Overall, we therefore recommend to use the conditional-LF hybrid confidence sets for
generic forms of , and optimal FLCIs for the special case of SD (M) (or other special
cases where the consistency/finite-sample near-optimality of FLCIs is guaranteed). Although
the conditional and hybrid approaches perform similarly in our simulations, we recommend
the hybrid approach in general based on the guidance provided in ARP. We implement these
recommendations in our applications in the next section.




                                                                                                       Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/restud/article/90/5/2555/7039335 by guest on 07 September 2023
             6. PRACTICAL GUIDANCE AND EMPIRICAL ILLUSTRATIONS
6.1.   Practical guidance
We recommend that researchers use our methods to construct robust confidence intervals under
restrictions on the possible violations of parallel trends  that are motivated by domain knowl-
edge in their empirical setting. We also suggest that researchers report sensitivity analyses to
illustrate the sensitivity of their causal conclusions to alternative assumptions on the possible
violations of parallel trends.


    6.1.1. Choice of . The choice of  should be motivated by economic knowledge about the
types of possible confounding factors that could produce non-parallel trends. We now provide
some guidance on how the choice of  can be motivated by domain knowledge, highlighting
some cases where our leading examples,  R M ( M̄) and SD (M), would be sensible choices.
    In some empirical settings, researchers may be concerned about differential economic shocks
to the treated and control groups that generate violations of parallel trends. If the researcher
believes that the magnitude of these differential shocks in the post-treatment period is not too
different from the magnitude in the pre-treatment period, then it may be reasonable to assume
δ ∈  R M ( M̄), which explicitly bounds the relative magnitudes of violations of parallel trends
in the post-treatment based on observed violations in the pre-treatment period. In other settings,
researchers may be worried about violations of parallel trends that arise due to differences in
smoothly evolving secular trends that differentially affect the treated and comparison groups.
In this case, it may be reasonable to assume δ ∈ SD (M), which explicitly bounds the extent
to which the slope of the difference in trends can vary across consecutive periods. Economic
knowledge may imply additional restrictions as well. For example, if the researcher knows of a
confounding policy change that would have a positive effect on the outcome, then it is reasonable
to further assume that post-treatment difference in trends must be positive (i.e. δt ≥ 0 for t > 0).
    In our empirical applications below, we illustrate how domain knowledge about the types
of possible violations of parallel trends can inform the choice of . We encourage applied
researchers to use such domain knowledge to inform the restrictions they impose on the possible
choices of parallel trends in their context.


   6.1.2. Choice of inference procedure. Based on our theoretical results and Monte Carlo
simulations, we recommend the ARP hybrid confidence sets for generic, polyhedral forms of .
For the special case of SD (M)—or other choices of  for which the consistency and finite-
sample-near-optimality of FLCIs are guaranteed—we recommend FLCIs. Our recommended
choice of inference procedure is implemented in the HonestDiD R and Stata packages that
