driven by differences in both the intensity of genAI use and labor cost shares. These factors
can offset one another: for example, the information services sector has high rates of genAI use
and time savings, but its estimated productivity gain is muted by its low labor cost share. At
the aggregate level, we estimate a potential productivity gain of 1.2% based on current genAI
use. This is close to Acemoglu (2024), who uses a similar framework to estimate a 0.7% gain
based on predicted task exposure rather than actual adoption. Notably, however, Acemoglu
(2024) assumed these productivity gains may take a decade to materialize. In contrast, our
estimates reflect current adoption and time savings, implying a faster pace of diffusion. We also
emphasize that our estimates do not capture potential productivity gains from using genAI to
reorganize or completely automate production processes, and therefore likely represent a lower
bound over longer horizons (Bresnahan and Trajtenberg, 1995; Brynjolfsson and Hitt, 2000;
David, 1990; Jovanovic and Rousseau, 2005).


2     Data Sources and Measurement

2.1   The Real-Time Population Survey (RPS)

Our main data source is the Real-Time Population Survey (RPS), a national labor market
survey of U.S. adults aged 18-64 (for a detailed discussion, see Bick and Blandin 2023). The RPS
is fielded online by Qualtrics, a large commercial survey provider, and has collected multiple
survey waves each year starting in 2020.

    The RPS is designed to mirror the Current Population Survey (CPS) along key dimensions.
The RPS matches questions on demographics and labor market outcomes in the basic CPS
and CPS Outgoing Rotation Group, using the same word-for-word phrasing when practical
and replicating the intricate sequence of questions necessary to elicit labor market outcomes
in a manner consistent with the CPS (US Census Bureau, 2015). Replicating key portions
of an existing high-quality survey ensures that survey concepts are comparable, which allows
researchers to validate RPS outcomes against a widely used benchmark with a larger sample
size and to construct sample weights. Bick and Blandin (2023) and Bick et al. (2025a,b) show
that the RPS closely aligns with government household surveys on distributions of employment,
hours worked, earnings, industry composition, employee tenure, and work from home.

    In June 2024, the RPS introduced a novel module measuring genAI use both at work and
at home.




                                               3
