of fit, we plot in Figure A.1 for all statistics used in the weighting scheme, the weighted fraction
of individuals with the respective characteristics in the RPS (on the y-axis) and the CPS (on
the x-axis) for August and November 2024. The lack of sizeable deviations from the 45-degree
line demonstrates how well the weighting procedure works. The results are similar for each
survey wave separately, including the June pilot, and are available upon request.


A.2.1    Weighting Adjustment Based on Awareness

In addition to the raking procedure described above to ensure representativeness along de-
mographic characteristics, our weighting scheme incorporates results from a new experimental
survey that tested alternative question sequences for measuring genAI awareness and use. This
experiment revealed that our original question sequence likely underestimated genAI awareness.
In response, we applied a reweighting adjustment to our 2024 survey waves to align them with
the higher awareness rates observed under the alternative design. This raises reported usage
levels modestly (by about 5–6 percentage points) without altering any qualitative patterns in
the results.

    Details. In survey waves prior to August 2025, respondents were first asked whether they
had heard of generative AI and, conditional on having heard of it, about their usage. To assess
whether this structure induced systematic differences in reporting, we introduced a randomized
experiment in a survey conducted in August 2025. Respondents were randomly assigned to
one of two groups. Group 1 received the original sequential flow, where they were first asked
whether they had heard of genAI, and then whether they used it. Alternatively, Group 2 was
first asked whether they used genAI, and if they did not use it they were asked why, with one
option being that they had not heard of it.

   Measurement differences across groups. We found that a larger share of respondents
reported having heard of genAI in Group 2. Specifically, 79.6 percent of Group 1 reported having
heard of genAI, compared with 88.4 percent of Group 2. Across the two groups, a similar
share of respondents reported using genAI conditional on having heard of genAI, suggesting
that differential awareness reporting was evenly split between genAI users and non-users. The
higher awareness rate in Group 2, combined with similar usage rates conditional on awareness
between Groups 1 and 2, translated into higher overall usage rates in Group 2. Similar patterns
held across employment status and for usage at home and at work. These results indicate that
the initial awareness question (for Group 1) generated a downward bias in reported usage rates.
One possible explanation for this pattern is that some respondents strategically reported that
they had not heard of genAI because they guessed they would receive fewer questions with that
answer.



                                                 5
