    Reweighting strategy. In the August 2025 wave, we can adjust for this bias by reweight-
ing Group 1 respondents to match Group 2 usage rates. We constructed adjustment weights
across gender, age, education, employment status, and usage (at work and at home) using a
raking algorithm that increases the weight of Group 1 users relative to non-users while leaving
Group 2 weights unchanged. To maintain coverage across demographic–usage cells, we did not
incorporate intensity of usage into the adjustment. (Alternatively, we find that weighting on
intensity of genAI interacted with only one demographic characteristics leads to very similar
results.)

   We then apply this adjustment to the 2024 survey waves used in this paper. Since all
respondents in these prior waves received the question sequence of Group 1, we apply the
adjustment to all respondents in these waves. Furthermore, the share of respondents stating
they have heard of genAI (prior to our weighting adjustment) shows no trend between the
surveys prior to the August 2025 survey and is very similar to Group 1 in the August 2025
survey (79.6% in vs. 79.4% in the August 2024 survey. This stability suggests that the bias in
August 2025 likely existed consistently across earlier waves as well.


A.3   Validation Checks

To illustrate how the RPS and CPS compare for characteristics that are not part of the sampling
scheme and the effect of weighting, panels (a) and (b) of Figure A.2 compare the usual weekly
earnings distribution in the RPS and CPS in the pooled August and November 2024 waves,
with and without weights, respectively. The unweighted distributions are already similar, and
the weights improve the fit further.

    Panels (c) and (d) of Figure A.2 compare occupation shares in the RPS and the CPS,
unweighted and weighted respectively. The unweighted correlation is 0.88, with Management
as the only major outlier. Applying the weights corrects this imbalance and mechanically
increases the correlation to 1.

   Figure A.3 compare the industry shares in the RPS and CPS in the pooled August and
November 2024 waves, with and without weights, as well as college major shares in the RPS
and 2022 American Community Survey (ACS). The unweighted correlations of the industry
shares is 0.89, comparable to those for occupations. The correlation of college majors in the
RPS and the ACS is 0.83. The major with the highest share relative to the ACS is Computers,
Mathematics, & Statistics, while the major with the lowest share relative to the ACS is Science
and Engineering Related Fields. Weighting the data marginally improves the fit between the
RPS and the two other data sets.

   All four variables align closely across survey waves, including the June pilot, and are avail-

                                               6
