    We presented genAI users a list of common products (and a write-in option) and asked them
to select (all) the products they use. This allows us to compare ChatGPT use in the RPS with
other surveys. The three most used genAI products were ChatGPT (32% of all respondents),
Gemini (19%), and embedded tools like Microsoft Copilot (15%). Appendix Figure C.2a shows
the full distribution of product usage. In April 2024, Fletcher and Nielsen (2024) conducted an
online survey of ChatGPT adoption using a different survey provider (YouGov). They found
that 18% of U.S. adults used ChatGPT at least weekly, compared to 22% who used ChatGPT
in the previous week in our Fall 2024 surveys.6

    A potential concern with online-based surveys is that they may suffer from selection based
on unobservable characteristics that are correlated with genAI use. For example, online survey
respondents may be more comfortable using technology and therefore be more likely to use
genAI than the overall U.S. population. From this perspective, a valuable point of comparison
is a survey conducted by the Pew Research Center (McClain, 2024). That survey sampled
respondents using a nationally representative sample of U.S. Postal Services addresses. Im-
portantly, the survey included respondents without internet access. (Internet access per se is
unlikely to substantially impact our results: in the 2022 ACS, 96.8% of individuals aged 18-64
reported having access to the internet.) They find that in February 2024, 27% of U.S. adults
age 18-64 reported ever having used ChatGPT, compared to 32% of individuals who report
using ChatGPT in our survey in August and November 2024.

    Finally, we can also compare genAI adoption by workers to adoption by firms. The monthly
Census BTOS Survey asks firms: “In the last two weeks, did this business use Artificial In-
telligence (AI) in producing goods or services? (Examples of AI: machine learning, natural
language processing, virtual agents, voice recognition, etc.)” (Bonney et al., 2024). Between
August and November 2024, 5.3% of firms report using AI, compared with 32.1% of workers
who report using genAI in the RPS. While differences in question wording may explain part of
this gap, they are unlikely to account for all of it.7 We conclude that, so far, genAI adoption
by workers is outpacing firm-wide adoption, implying that firm-based measures may miss an
important share of genAI’s impact (Babina et al., 2024).


3.2    How Does Early Generative AI Adoption Compare to Other Technologies?

Figure 2 compares the pace of genAI adoption with PCs two to three years since the release of
the first-mass market product for each technology. (As described in Section 2.2, adoption was
   6
     Humlum and Vestergaard (2024) survey a representative sample of workers in eleven occupations in Denmark
about their usage of ChatGPT at work. We find similar patterns by age, education and gender in the occupations
covered by both surveys.
   7
     For example, some respondents in the BTOS survey may not interpret using a genAI tool in a company’s
human resource department as being used “in producing goods or services.”


                                                      8
