in Professional, Scientific, and Technical. The correlation between productivity gains and AI
usage by industry (0.65) is smaller than for the time-savings and industry (0.93). This is
primarily due to variation in labor shares across industries. For example, Information Services
has high genAI use and time savings, but a low labor share (0.39).

   To what extent are these predicted productivity gains evident in economic data? Figure
9c compares changes in effective labor supply in the RPS with annualized labor productivity
growth (i.e., the percent change in real value added per worker) from 2022 – 2024. To adjust for
trends in TFP growth prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, we detrend annualized labor productivity
by subtracting the annualized growth predicted by the trend over the period 2015-2019 from the
actual growth rate. We find a positive correlation of 0.39. The power of this analysis is limited
by three factors. First, our predicted changes in effective labor supply are modest relative to
observed changes in labor productivity, which can be affected by many factors other than genAI.
Second, the change in labor productivity over this period may partly reflect recovery from the
Covid-19 pandemic: in particular, both Retail and Transportation were disproportionately
negatively impacted by demand shifts during the pandemic and exhibit very high productivity
growth from 2022-2024 relative to trend. Third, our sample size includes only 15 industries
with sufficient sample size.

    Figure 9d compares changes in predicted productivity gains in the model with annualized
labor productivity growth. In this comparison the correlation declines to effectively zero. Me-
chanically, the correlation declines because some industries with high effective labor gains and
high observed productivity gains have a small labor share, which dampens the predicted pro-
ductivity gain in the model. One potential explanation for the decrease in the correlation is
that industry adoption of genAI may be correlated with worker adoption. If industries with
large increases in effective labor supply also experienced productivity gains due to firm-level
adoption, then our model, which only captures changes in individual workers’ effective labor
supply, would under-predict total productivity gains in those industries.


5.4   Aggregate Productivity Gains and a Comparison of Micro and Macro Esti-
      mates

We can apply this same procedure to estimate aggregate productivity gains due to genAI. In
particular, we estimate that on the aggregate level genAI currently increases the aggregate
effective labor supply by 2.1%. Using an AI-exposure-adjusted labor share of 0.57, following
Acemoglu (2024), we estimate a potential productivity gain of 1.2%.

    To compare our estimate of the aggregate productivity gain from genAI with experimental
estimates from the literature, we reformulate the model to express time savings as a linear


                                               24
