Physical, and Social Science Occupations (SOC=19); Community and Social Service Occupa-
tions (SOC=21); Legal Occupations (SOC=23); Educational Instruction and Library Occu-
pations (SOC=25); Arts, Design, Entertainment, Sports, and Media Occupations (SOC=27);
Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Occupations (SOC=29); Healthcare Support Occupa-
tions (SOC=31); Protective Service Occupations (SOC=33); Food Preparation and Serving Re-
lated Occupations (SOC=35); Building and Grounds Cleaning and Maintenance Occupations
(SOC=37); Personal Care and Service Occupations (SOC=39); Sales and Related Occupations
(SOC=41); Office and Administrative Support Occupations (SOC=43); Farming, Fishing, and
Forestry Occupations (SOC=45); Construction and Extraction Occupations (SOC=47); Instal-
lation, Maintenance, and Repair Occupations (SOC=49); Production Occupations (SOC=51);
Transportation and Material Moving Occupations (SOC=53).

    The occupation groupings used in the main text figures are: Personal Services occupa-
tions combine SOC codes 31-39: Healthcare support, Protective services, Food preparation
and serving, Cleaning and maintenance, and Personal care. Blue Collar occupations combine
SOC codes 47-53: Construction, Extraction, Installation, Maintenance and Repair, Production,
Transportation, and Moving.

    We elicited respondents’ job titles through a free text response with autocomplete sugges-
tions covering over 40,000 occupations from O*NET and the Occupational Outlook Handbook
and then match them to Standard Occupation Classification (SOC) codes using a parsing algo-
rithm that identifies occupations in 97 percent of cases. For job titles that do not exactly match
a unique SOC code, we present respondents with a choice of probabilistic matches using the
job title to SOC code matching algorithm developed by the National Institute for Occupational
Safety and Health (Laughlin et al., 2024).


A.5   Reasons for Not Using Generative AI at Work

In the November 2024 wave, we asked people who know about genAI but do not use it at work
the following question.

    You indicated that you do not use Generative AI for your job. Below is a list of common
reasons why people do not use Generative AI for their job. Please select all that apply to you.

   The answer options were:


  1. Generative AI cannot help with my job.

  2. I am unsure how to use Generative AI effectively for my job.

  3. My employer does not allow me to use Generative AI.

                                               10
