2.1.1    RPS Sample

Qualtrics panel members are recruited to the panel online and, in our case, can participate
in exchange for 30 to 50 percent of the $5.50 paid per completed survey. The Qualtrics panel
includes about 15 million members and is not a random sample of the U.S. population. However,
Qualtrics can target survey invitations to specific demographic groups. The RPS sample was
designed to be nationally representative across key demographics. We also include measures to
filter out low quality responses. Details on sampling and data quality procedures can be found
in Appendix A.1.

   We fielded the RPS with a pilot genAI module in June 2024 and received 2,551 responses.
We then launched the full genAI module with the August and November 2024 waves and
received 5,014 and 5,329 responses respectively. All surveys started fielding during the same
weeks that the CPS conducted its corresponding surveys. Because the results are very similar
across all surveys but our June pilot featured fewer questions, we report results from the pooled
August and November surveys. Appendix B replicates the main figures of the paper separately
by survey waves.

   Appendix Table A.1 compares the unweighted sample composition between the CPS and
RPS along the demographics targeted in the sampling procedure for our main surveys (columns
1 and 2). The bottom panel also compares employment status in the CPS and RPS, which was
not targeted in the sampling procedure. The two surveys yield very similar population shares.


2.1.2    Sample Weights and Validation

To address remaining discrepancies, we construct sample weights using the raking algorithm
of Deming and Stephan (1940), ensuring that the weighted sample proportions align with the
demographic characteristics targeted in the sampling procedure and that the employment shares
in the RPS align with the CPS as well. Details on weighting can be found in Appendix A.2.3

   In Appendix A.3, we show that the distribution of usual weekly earnings, occupation, and
industry shares in the RPS, which were not targeted during sampling, closely align with the
CPS, in both the raw and weighted data.
   3
    In particular, Appendix A.2.1 discusses a weighting adjustment we applied based on an experimental survey
which randomized the sequencing of questions in the genAI module.




                                                     4
