rapidly (Nelson and Phelps, 1966). Third, genAI may directly increase workers’ productivity
and wages. Our data do not allow us to distinguish between these explanations.


4.1    Tasks, Predicted Exposure, and Generative AI Adoption

Why do some groups of workers adopt genAI at higher rates than others? One reason could be
that workers differ in their job tasks or responsibilities, and genAI is more helpful in assisting
some tasks than others.

   Consistent with this explanation, we first document that genAI adoption differs greatly
between occupations; see Figure 5. The three occupations with the highest genAI adoption are
computer and mathematical, management, and business and finance occupations (54%, 52%,
and 48%, respectively) and the bottom three are blue collar, office and administration, and
personal services occupations (26%, 23%, and 16%, respectively). At the same time, genAI
adoption exceeds 20% in all but one occupation groups, suggesting that the technology is
useful for a broad range of occupations. As with demographic differences, differences between
occupations are driven by the rates of daily and weekly genAI users.

    Do different adoption rates between occupations reflect differences in tasks or responsibili-
ties? One approach to assess this is to construct task-based-exposure measures across occupa-
tions (Eloundou et al., 2024; Felten et al., 2021; Webb, 2020). For example, Eloundou et al.
(2024) constructs a rubric that assigns each task in the O*NET database a zero or one corre-
sponding to whether LLMs (a popular class of genAI) could feasibly produce large productivity
gains for that task. They then construct a predicted exposure score for each occupation by
aggregating task-level scores for each occupation. Using RPS data, we can ask whether these
predictions are correlated with adoption. Our study is the first to evaluate these task-based
“exposure” predictions using actual genAI adoption rates.12

    Figure 6a plots an occupation group’s predicted genAI exposure from Eloundou et al. (2024)
against actual genAI adoption in the 2024 RPS. We find that predicted genAI exposure is highly
correlated with actual genAI adoption (ρ = 0.65). In Figure 6b, we find a similar correlation
(ρ = 0.71) using the predicted exposure score from Felten et al. (2021). For example, personal
service and blue-collar occupations have relatively low predicted exposure and also relatively
low adoption, while computer and mathematical occupations have both high predicted exposure
and high adoption.

   The high correlation between predicted exposure and actual adoption provides partial vali-
dation of task-based exposure predictions, supporting their utility for researchers. At the same
  12
    Handa et al. (2025) assign tasks to conversations by Claude.ai Free and Pro users and show that task usage
rates are correlated with the predictions by Eloundou et al. (2024).


                                                     13
