O. Teutloff et al.                                                                Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization 235 (2025) 106845

understand the impact of generative AI on work and employment, we examine the effects of the ChatGPT launch on labor demand
across fine-grained skill clusters that can be substituted or complemented by LLMs.
     While LLMs and Generative AI (Gen AI) are fairly new, there is extensive literature estimating the exposure to automation –
i.e., the technical feasibility of occupations being replaced by AI – using O*NET task data on occupations and patent data. Frey and
Osborne (2017) estimated that half of the US labor force could be in occupations at risk of automation. Arntz et al. (2016) offered
a nuanced view of these findings through a task-level analysis and concluded that less than 10% of the jobs in OECD countries
were at high risk of automation. In 2017, Brynjolfsson and Mitchell (2017) argued that AI would most likely redefine work within
occupations. Webb (2019) used Natural Language Processing (NLP) to study occupation task descriptions and patent documents,
suggesting that high-skill tasks are more amenable to AI replacement, potentially decreasing wage inequality between the highest
and lowest earners without impacting the top 1% of earners. Albanesi et al. (2023) highlighted a positive association between AI
exposure scores and employment growth across 16 European countries from 2011 to 2019.
     Several empirical studies have explored the impact of recent technological innovations on the labor market. Autor et al. (2024)
found that in recent decades, labor demand-eroding effects of technologies intensified while demand-increasing effects did not.
Using online platform data, Stephany and Teutloff (2024) documented that workers with machine learning and AI skills can earn a
premium compared to workers who have otherwise similar skill sets but lack AI proficiency. For online freelancers, Lysyakov and
Viswanathan (2023) found that in response to the threat of image-generating AI, designers on an online crowd-sourcing platform
split into two groups: low-tier designers exited the market, while higher-capability designers moved away from direct competition
with AI by focusing on more complex tasks.
     Regarding LLMs, a small but rapidly growing literature examines their labor market impacts. Eloundou et al. (2023) estimated
that approximately 80% of the U.S. workforce could see at least 10% of their job tasks influenced by the deployment of (LLMs),
with around 19% of employees potentially experiencing an impact on at least half of their tasks. Noy and Zhang (2023) conducted
an experiment and found that ChatGPT increased the productivity of mid-level professional writing tasks. Similarly, Brynjolfsson
et al. (2023) found that access to a generative AI tool led to a 14% increase in productivity, as indicated by the number of issues
resolved per hour. Novice and low-skilled workers experienced the highest increase in productivity, while the impact on seasoned,
skilled workers was negligible. Experimental evidence also showed that LLM-based code writing assistants such as GitHub Copilot
increased developer speed by over 50% (Peng et al., 2023), with less experienced programmers benefiting the most.
     Outside laboratory settings, initial evidence shows the short-term effects of LLMs on labor markets from online labor platforms.
On the demand side, generative AI significantly reduces the number of freelance projects in automation-prone occupations (Demirci
et al., 2023). Demirci et al. (2023) used a skill co-occurrence network approach to create 15 clusters of jobs that fall within three
broad groups: manual-intensive, writing automation-prone, and image-generation jobs. They find that writing automation-prone
and image-generation jobs decrease compared to manual-intensive jobs. On the supply side, effects vary between workers: those in
occupations highly exposed to generative AI substitution suffer reductions in earnings and employment opportunities (Hui et al.,
2023; Liu et al., 2023). However, while top-performing freelancers might be disproportionately affected by generative AI (Hui et al.,
2023), those who integrate generative AI into their work attract more jobs (Liu et al., 2023). Freelancers in web development whose
jobs are complemented by AI may increase their earnings, while translators face fewer opportunities and lower wages (Qiao et al.,
2023).
     Both experimental studies and those based on online labor platforms offer initial insights into how LLMs may affect the labor
market. However, these studies have either focused on controlled laboratory settings, which may not translate to complex labor
markets, or on a limited group of broad skills, potentially obscuring heterogeneous effects. Moreover, online labor platform studies
have primarily examined substitution effects, while LLMs often serve complementary roles, enhancing certain tasks without fully
replacing entire jobs (Eloundou et al., 2023). Given that the effects of new technologies depend significantly on their implementation
and the specific skills they impact (Autor, 2024), we need a deeper understanding of the impact across skill heterogeneity and to
distinguish between substitutable and complementary skills. However, conducting such a study poses two main challenges. First,
skill categories on online labor markets evolve over time, complicating the use of co-occurrence networks at a fine-grained level.
Second, it is manually infeasible to categorize the impact of LLMs on millions of job postings into substitutable, complementary, or
unaffected categories.
     NLP tools, which are frequently used in economic research, can help us overcome these challenges. As Ash and Hansen (2023)
pointed out, text algorithms can solve several common problems in applied economics, including document similarity measurement
and concept detection. For example, Hoberg and Phillips (2016) quantifies the relatedness of firms based on the similarity of their
product offer descriptions. Hansen et al. (2023) and Adams-Prassl et al. (2020) use a language-processing framework to determine
whether job postings refer to hybrid or fully remote work. del Rio-Chanona et al. (2023) use topic modeling to study how the
prevalence of topics across the work discourse evolved during the Covid-19 pandemic and the Great Resignation. Most recently,
LLMs have been shown to perform near the human level on a range of qualitative data analysis tasks, such as e. g. text annotation,
interview analysis, or automated lexicography (Karjus, 2023). Following this line of work, Eloundou et al. (2023) used ChatGPT to
quantify the extent to which occupations’ work activities can be performed by LLMs.
     To tackle the first challenge of evolving skill categories, we use a topic modeling approach to group job postings into skill
clusters with similar semantic meanings. This allows us to include more than 3 million job postings into our analysis and identify
116 distinct skill clusters. To overcome the second challenge of assigning jobs AI exposure labels, we build upon recent LLM prompt
engineering research (Eloundou et al., 2023; OpenAI, 2023; Wei et al., 2022) to classify the exposure of the skill clusters to LLMs into
substitutable, complementary or unaffected groups. We identify 71 fine-grained skill clusters to be substitutable or complementary,
and 45 to be unaffected. This classification allows us to move beyond existing research that manually defines writing-related services

                                                                   2
