O. Teutloff et al.                                                                     Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization 235 (2025) 106845




Fig. 6. Event study: log mean budget - This figure plots the difference in log mean budget between the unaffected cluster and substituted and
augmented clusters and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals. The vertical line corresponds to ChatGPT launch. Standard errors are clustered
at job posting cluster level.




Accordingly, we implemented a randomization inference procedure as follows: we first shuffled the treatment labels (Unaffected,
Complementary, Substitutable) randomly. Then, we re-estimated the difference-in-differences model given by Eq. (1) using the
shuffled treatment labels, saving the difference-in-differences terms 𝛿1 and 𝛿2 . Repeating this procedure many times produces a
distribution of 𝛿1 and 𝛿2 pairs under the null hypothesis that the launch of ChatGPT has no effect on the demand for complementary
and substitutable clusters. Comparing the actual estimates of 𝛿1 and 𝛿2 to this distribution of placebo estimates allows us to
understand how extreme they are in comparison. We report the results of this exercise in Appendix H. The results indicate that
the p-values based on randomization inference are very similar to those based on the cluster robust covariance matrix reported in
the main text.

3.2.5. Isolating the demand shock from general equilibrium effects
    The previous analysis demonstrated a reduction in job postings for substitutable skill clusters following the launch of ChatGPT.
Here, we strengthen the argument that this decline reflects a demand-side shock rather than a reduction in labor supply with three
key points.
    First, we highlight, that using job postings as a measure of labor demand is a well-established approach in labor economics (Davis
et al., 2013; Marinescu and Wolthoff, 2020; Barnichon, 2010). Job postings are initiated by employers to signal a need for labor,
making them a relatively pure indicator of demand, independent of supply-side factors such as the number or characteristics of job
seekers.
    Second, we show that the mean budget per job posting spent by employers require complementary and substituted skill clusters
did not change due to the introduction of ChatGPT. This suggests that employers were willing to pay the same price for labor but
demanded less of it, consistent with a leftward shift in the labor demand curve following the ChatGPT launch. Although we lack data
on realized wages for all employers, some job postings include a desired employer budget as a part of the job posting. We use the
subset data of job postings of employers who reported a budget, and replicate the event study analysis of the previous section, but
with the log mean budget as the dependent variable. Fig. 6 and Column (1) of Table 3 show the results of this analysis. There is no
significant change in the average employer budget across complementary and substitutable clusters in comparison to the unaffected
category.
    Third, we show that applications per job posting increased due to a decrease in job postings rather than an increase in
applications. To do this, we replicate the event study analysis using the log of the average number of applicants per job posting as
the dependent variable. As Fig. 7 and Column (2) of Table 3 show, the number of applicants per project increased after the launch
of ChatGPT. Moreover, we can decompose the increase in applications per job posting as follows
            (∑                  )       (                 )
                𝑗 𝐴𝑝𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑠𝑗𝑖𝑡           ∑
        log                       = log      𝐴𝑝𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑠𝑗𝑖𝑡 − log(𝑃 𝑜𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑠𝑖𝑡 ).                                                    (3)
                 𝑃 𝑜𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑠𝑖𝑡              𝑗


                                                                       14
