O. Teutloff et al.                                                                       Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization 235 (2025) 106845

Complementary: A non-expert cannot use Large Language Models to complete these tasks without significantly compromising the
     quality of execution. However, an expert freelancer can use Large Language models to reduce the time it takes them to
     complete these tasks by at least half and without significantly compromising quality.

Unaffected: While non-experts and experts may be able to use Large Language Models to help in these tasks, Large Language
      Models can only provide limited help. In other words, having access to a large language model will not reduce the time it
      takes an expert freelancer to complete the job by more than half.

    These represent ex-ante definitions of the substitution, complemented and unaffected categories. While we conduct the manual
and GPT-based labeling in 2024, we only consider LLM capabilities that were available by the time ChatGPT was released in
November 2022 (for more details and showcase examples, see appendices B and C.
    Manual labeling. To reliably classify skills clusters into these three groups, we combine several steps of manual analysis and
GPT prompting as outlined in Fig. 1 sections two and three. First, two authors independently label all skill clusters. Reviewing
and discussing the labels allows us to create a high-confidence set of 55 skill clusters for which we are confident about the AI
exposure labels. This set includes 17 clusters in substitution, 14 in complementarity, and 24 in unaffected. However, since many of
the skill clusters consist of highly specialized skills, reliable manual labeling would require expert knowledge in a variety of different
occupational fields. Therefore, we rely on GPT-4o to extend our labels to the entire set of skill clusters using the high confidence
set to optimize GPT prompts and benchmark the results.
    Prompt engineering. To develop a prompt for GPT-4o that produces high-quality AI exposure labels for all skill clusters, we
employ several validated prompt engineering best practices with the high confidence set serving as our test set on which to evaluate
GPT output. As demonstrated by Brown et al. (2020), LLMs have been found to possess ’few-shot properties’, i. e. their performance
across most tasks increases when the prompt includes several demonstrative examples. Additionally, so-called ’chain-of-thought’
prompting, whereby the user also gives examples of the logical steps that should lead to the correct answer, has been shown to
significantly improve the complex reasoning capabilities of LLMs (Wei et al., 2022). We consider these insights by including an
example for each category and a precise description of the reasoning behind the classification to the prompt. Further, as suggested
by OpenAI (2023), we format our prompt such that the instructions are at the beginning and are separated through quotation marks
from the context part. We further explicitly articulate our desired output format (JSON).
    For each cluster, our input in the prompt includes the top ten skills as identified by cTF-IDF from BERTopic and the cluster’s
most frequent skills. We incorporate don’t solely rely on the skills identified by cTF-IDF since those may not include relevant skills
that are common across many clusters. The final best-performing prompt achieves 93 percent accuracy on the high confidence set.
The full prompt text and examples for GPT output can be found in Appendix B. Using this final prompt to generate labels for all
skill clusters results in 31 clusters assigned to substitution, 164 to complementarity, and 91 to unaffected.
    Consistency checks. To ensure consistent, high-quality labels, we manually review all GPT labels and the corresponding
reasoning. Moreover, we use hierarchical clustering to aggregate the original 286 skill clusters into higher-level groups. Label
coherence within the higher-level skill clusters corroborates the validity of the GPT labels. We change labels where the GPT reasoning
is unconvincing and labels are not aligned within higher-level hierarchical skill clusters. Lastly, we manually merge small skill
clusters following the hierarchical structure. While high granularity is beneficial when assigning AI exposure labels, small skill
clusters are, at times, not stable over time. The online freelancing platform seems to periodically introduce new names for skills
while discontinuing old ones. As a result, a few skill clusters suddenly disappear while other very similar skill clusters see sudden
surges in their number of jobs. To smooth this noise, we merge problematic skill clusters into clusters with similar skills. This approach
allows us to maximize the coherence of AI exposure labels while minimizing noise in the job count of skill clusters caused by the
renaming of skills by the platform. We obtain a final set of 116 clusters, of which 12 are labeled as substitution, 59 as complementary
and 45 as unaffected. Appendix section B provides additional information on how we create the AI exposure labels including details
on manual labeling, prompts, label revision, and robustness.

2.5. Difference-in-differences and causal inference

    To estimate the causal effect of the ChatGPT launch on labor demand, we use a standard difference-in-differences design. Our
control group consists of skill clusters where we assume ChatGPT cannot significantly aid in accomplishing tasks associated with
jobs in those clusters. The treated clusters are labeled as either substitutable or complementary (examples of substitutable and
complementary clusters can be found in Appendix C). We compare the two treated groups to the control group and estimate how
the difference between them evolved since the launch of ChatGPT. More concretely, we express the log count of new job postings
in cluster 𝑖 in week 𝑡 as:
         log(𝑃 𝑜𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑠𝑖𝑡 ) = 𝛽0 + 𝛽1 Complementary𝑖 + 𝛽2 Substitutable𝑖 + 𝛾After𝑡
                                                                                                                                                   (1)
                          + 𝛿1 (Complementary𝑖 × After𝑡 ) + 𝛿2 (Substitutable𝑖 × After𝑡 ) + 𝜖𝑖𝑡 .
After𝑡 is a dummy variable that gets value 1 after the public launch of ChatGPT on the week of the 30th of November 2022 (and
zero before that week). The binary variable Complementary𝑖 gets value 1 if cluster 𝑖 is labeled as Complementary, and analogously,
the binary variable Substitutable𝑖 has value 1 if the cluster is considered containing mainly skills relevant for tasks where humans
can be substituted by LLMs. As sensitivity checks, we also estimate variations of Eq. (1) with cluster fixed and week fixed effects to
account for seasonal variation in market labor demand and possible gaps in data collection.

                                                                        6
