O. Teutloff et al.                                                                                 Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization 235 (2025) 106845




Fig. 1. Methodological overview: From job postings to AI exposure label. Our approach for creating skill clusters from job postings and assigning them
to a treatment group consists of three steps. First, we use the large language model SBERT to embed the skill requirements of each job posting, creating
numerical high-dimensional job-level embeddings. Through UMAP, we reduce the dimensionality and then apply the HDBSCAN clustering algorithm. Second,
we manually label the resulting skill clusters into substitutable, complementary, and unaffected to create a high-confidence set that serves as a benchmark for
prompt engineering GPT-4o. The best prompt is used to label all skill clusters. Third, we use GPT-4o’s reasoning and the hierarchical structure of the skill clusters
to verify the label consistency. Merging similar skill clusters ensures stable observations over time that are robust to the platform renaming skills.




    When posting a job, the employer is initially asked to provide a title. Based on this job title, the platform automatically generates
a set of skill requirements. Employers have the flexibility to edit this list of skills as they see fit. The platform curates the pool of
available skills, adding new ones based on job postings and ongoing discussions with key clients (for instance, when Python2 was
replaced by Python3, the relevant skill tags were updated for the new job postings. The old ones still show Python2.). The skill
clusters are built in a way that the number of clusters does not change during the analysis period.
    The granular information on skill demand and the fast-paced nature of this digital labor market make it an ideal setting to study
the labor market implications of LLMs because changes in demand for specific skills should manifest much faster than in traditional
labor market settings, making it an ideal real-world ‘‘lab’’ (Horton and Tambe, 2015) for observing the effects of LLMs.
    Data for this study was gathered through the Online Labour Index project, as detailed by Kässi and Lehdonvirta (2018), which
has been monitoring daily new job listings through the platform’s API since January 2017. Further data collection on job specifics
took place in multiple phases from November 2021 to August 2023. The freelancing platform, while based in the United States,
operates globally, drawing a significant number of workers from countries such as India, Pakistan, the Philippines, and East Europe,
as noted by Stephany et al. (2021).
    We have collected information on the daily new job postings between January 2021 and September 2023, covering several
million job postings. In a few cases, there were gaps in the data collection due to various software errors. These are visible as
sudden ‘‘blips’’ in the time series of postings. Reassuringly for us, the data collection worked without errors from May 2022 to
September 2023. We also demonstrate that our results remain consistent even when controlling for these fluctuations using week
dummies or when excluding the few problematic time periods from our data.
    Besides detailed information on the skills required for the job posting, our data includes various other metadata. In particular, we
use two variables as control variables when studying effect heterogeneity: expected project duration and worker experience level.
When creating a job posting, the employer is asked to provide the expected duration of the job. The duration can be one of the
following: under 3 weeks, 3–9 weeks, 9–18 weeks, or 18–52 weeks. This information is not binding for either the employer or the
worker; it merely reflects the employer’s expectation about the contract length.

                                                                                 4
