                                            Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization 235 (2025) 106845


                                                           Contents lists available at ScienceDirect


                                  Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization
                                                   journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jebo




Winners and losers of generative AI: Early Evidence of Shifts in
Freelancer Demand
Ole Teutloff a,b , Johanna Einsiedler a , Otto Kässi c,d , Fabian Braesemann b,d,e ,
Pamela Mishkin f ,1 , R. Maria del Rio-Chanona g,h,i ,∗
a Copenhagen Center for Social Data Science, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark
b DWG Datenwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Berlin, Berlin, Germany
c Etla Economic Research Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland
d
   Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom
e
  Einstein Center Digital Future, Berlin, Germany
f
  Independent, San Francisco, United States
g
  Computer Science Department, University College London, London, United Kingdom
h
   Bennett Institute for Public Policy, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom
i Complexity Science Hub Vienna, Vienna, Austria




ARTICLE                 INFO                             ABSTRACT

JEL classification:                                      We examine how ChatGPT has changed the demand for freelancers in jobs where generative AI
C 21                                                     tools can act as substitutes or complements to human labor. Using BERTopic we partition job
C 55                                                     postings from a leading online freelancing platform into 116 fine-grained skill clusters and with
J 21
                                                         GPT-4o we classify them as substitutable, complementary or unaffected by LLMs. Our analysis
J 23
                                                         reveals that labor demand increased after the launch of ChatGPT, but only in skill clusters
J 24
O 33
                                                         that were complementary to or unaffected by the AI tool. In contrast, demand for substitutable
                                                         skills, such as writing and translation, decreased by 20–50% relative to the counterfactual trend,
Keywords:
                                                         with the sharpest decline observed for short-term (1-3 week) jobs. Within complementary skill
Generative AI technologies
Large language models                                    clusters, the results are mixed: demand for machine learning programming grew by 24%, and
Automation and employment                                demand for AI-powered chatbot development nearly tripled, while demand for novice workers
Labor market implications of AI                          declined in general. This result suggests a shift toward more specialized expertise for freelancers
Technological transition                                 rather than uniform growth across all complementary areas.
Online labor markets




1. Introduction

    The impact of Large Language Models (LLMs) on labor markets remains an open question, with early evidence suggesting a wide
range of outcomes. On one hand, LLMs have been shown to reduce demand for certain tasks like writing and translation, where they
can substitute human labor (Demirci et al., 2023; Qiao et al., 2023; Hui et al., 2023; Liu et al., 2023). On the other hand, laboratory
experiments have shown that LLMs can be used as complementary tools that enhance productivity, particularly for less experienced
workers (Brynjolfsson and McAfee, 2014; Noy and Zhang, 2023). These mixed results align with the view of Autor (2024), that the
effects of new technology on work depend heavily on how it is deployed by firms, governments, and other stakeholders. To better


    ∗ Corresponding author at: Computer Science Department, University College London, London, United Kingdom.
        E-mail address: m.delriochanona@ucl.ac.uk (R.M. del Rio-Chanona).
    1   This paper reflects the author’s individual research and recommendations and was not written in her official capacity at OpenAI, United States.

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jebo.2024.106845
Received 15 February 2024; Received in revised form 25 October 2024; Accepted 25 November 2024
Available online 29 January 2025
0167-2681/© 2024 The Authors.            Published              by   Elsevier    B.V.   This   is   an   open   access   article   under   the   CC   BY   license
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
