O. Teutloff et al.                                                               Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization 235 (2025) 106845

     Additionally, the employer can specify the experience level of workers they are looking for, choosing from three options: ‘‘I am
willing to hire an inexperienced freelancer cheaply’’ (novice), ‘‘I prefer an intermediate level freelancer’’ (intermediate), or ‘‘I am
willing to pay more for an experienced freelancer’’ (veteran). This information is presented to workers when they apply for jobs.
However, it is important to note that the specified worker level is merely a statement of employer expectations. Novice workers can
still apply for and potentially be hired for jobs aimed at higher levels.
     The job posting metadata also includes other potential control variables, such as expected hours per week, and the desired
worker’s home country. These variables were not useful as control variables due to a large share of missing values.
     Finally, when creating a job posting, the employers can also declare their expected project budget. We use the employer declared
budget as a proxy measure for employers’ willingness to pay for labor.

2.3. From job postings to skill-clusters with BERTopic modeling

    We use BERTopic to form and name clusters of job postings with similar skill requirements. This process is done in five steps,
which we explain and justify below.
    Embeddings. We give a text description to each job posting by appending the pre-text ’Expert in’ to its list of skills, which
are lower-cased and unhyphenated. For instance, a job posting with skills ‘ghostwriting’, ‘writing’, ‘ebook’, ’creative writing’, and
‘english’ becomes ’Expert in ghostwriting, writing, ebook, creative writing, english’. We then embed these text descriptions into a
384-dimensional space using the sentence transformer ‘‘all-MiniLM-L6-v2’’, which is recommended for short texts.
    We prefer this approach over skill co-occurrence since skills are not constant over time. For example, while ’news writing style’
and ’news writing’ refer to the same or very similar skill, ’news writing style’ appears as a skill between 2021–2022 but not in
2023, while ’news writing’ is a skill present in 2022–2023, but not before. Network co-occurrence algorithms, which are commonly
used to model skill networks (Anderson, 2017; Lukac, 2021; Demirci et al., 2023; Stephany and Teutloff, 2024), may struggle to
see these two skills as overlapping. Transformer models like BERTopic are able to capture the overlap due to semantic similarity.
In addition, compared to bag-of-words embedding approaches such as GloVE or Word2Vec (Pennington et al., 2014; Mikolov et al.,
2013), transformers have the advantage of not being restricted to a predefined dictionary of words.
    Dimensionality reduction The next step is to reduce the dimensionality of the embeddings using Uniform Manifold Approxi-
mation and Projection for Dimension Reduction (UMAP) (McInnes et al., 2018). This step is crucial because, in high-dimensional
spaces, data points tend to become equidistant from each other, making it difficult for clustering algorithms to identify meaningful
groupings (Aggarwal et al., 2001). Moreover, high-dimensional representations often contain noise or irrelevant features, which
dimensionality reduction helps filter out. By focusing on the most important features, dimensionality reduction techniques enhance
the quality of the clusters (Van Der Maaten et al., 2009).
    Clustering We then cluster projects using Hierarchical Density-Based Spatial Clustering of Applications with Noise (HDBSCAN).
We adjust the minimum cluster size for HDBSCAN to 1000, as the BERTopic documentation recommends trying different values
and setting parameters larger than 500 for datasets exceeding one million entries (Grootendorst, 2024b). We further use an outlier
reduction function to decrease the number of uncategorized topics (Grootendorst, 2024a; McInnes and Healy, 2017).
    We use HDBSCAN instead of K-means because K-means assumes clusters to be spherical and of roughly equal size. HDBSCAN,
however, utilizes density within the embeddings, accommodating clusters of varying shapes (Bhattacharjee and Mitra, 2021). This
approach is generally preferred for complex data distributions, such as text embeddings, and is recommended by the BERTopic
documentation (Grootendorst, 2022). HDBSCAN also provides a hierarchy of clusters, allowing us to check cluster coherence
manually.
    This step resulted in 286 clusters. We manually checked the common skills and several job descriptions in each cluster and
concluded that, at least intuitively, the clustering seems to produce meaningful results. Since BERTopic is stochastic in nature, the
results depend on the initial, random allocation of topics to clusters. To test the robustness of our clusters, we ran the algorithm
multiple times and also tried K-means clustering instead of HDBSCAN. The robustness checks are detailed in Appendix E.
    Vectorization The clustering procedures end in the previous step. However, BERTopic facilitates giving intuitive names to each
cluster with two more steps. These two steps do not affect the categorization of clusters into substitutable, complementary, or
unaffected (see next section) and consequently do not affect our difference-in-difference estimation. Nonetheless, the names help
interpret our results. The vectorization step converts text in clusters into numerical vectors, which creates a document-term matrix
where each entry represents the frequency of a token in a document.
    cTF-IDF Finally, to label each cluster, the most representative words are chosen via continuous term frequency-inverse document
frequency (cTF-IDF). This process balances out frequent terms and removes those that are too frequent, ensuring that the most
informative terms for each cluster are highlighted. This helps in assigning meaningful labels to the skill clusters.
    In Appendix A, we provide a comparison of our clusters to the categories used by the online freelance platforms and additional
arguments for our choice of clustering methods and robustness checks.

2.4. From skill clusters to AI exposure labels with GPT-4o

   We apply the definitions from Eloundou et al. (2023) and Qiao et al. (2023) to group skill clusters into the following three
categories of AI exposure:

Substitutable: A non-expert person can use Large Language Models to complete these tasks with a similar level of quality without
       the help of an expert.

                                                                  5
