O. Teutloff et al.                                                                Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization 235 (2025) 106845

    In summary, we have demonstrated that the launch of ChatGPT led to a decrease in labor demand without reducing average
employer budgets. Furthermore, the number of applicants per job posting increased after the launch, and this increase can be
almost completely explained by the reduction in the number of job postings. Taken together, these findings suggest that the launch
of ChatGPT led to a reduction in labor demand, with the same number of applicants competing for a smaller pool of substitutable
jobs.
    While our data does not capture wage changes, it is possible that increased competition may have reduced equilibrium wages. If
this is the case, our demand estimates should be interpreted as a lower bound on the true effect. However, Liu et al. (2023), using a
similar dataset and research design, did not find evidence of reduced project values, suggesting that the impact on workers’ wages
may be limited.
    One limitation of the previous analysis is that we lack information about the identity or characteristics of the applicants, which
may have changed over time. If the launch of ChatGPT led to a less qualified applicant pool, this could have also contributed to a
reduction in labor demand. This shift in applicant quality — along with the possibility of ChatGPT directly replacing certain types
of work — could be one reason for the observed decrease in labor demand following the launch of ChatGPT. However, we think
this is unlikely for two reasons. First, we do not find an increase in supply, meaning that if there was an influx of less qualified
applicants, more qualified workers must have left the platform. We have no reason to suspect this would have happened given that
the average budget per job remained constant. Moreover, the platform in question allows employers to closely monitor workers’
performance and even withhold payment if the deliverable is deemed insufficient in quality. This level of oversight reduces the
likelihood that employers would decrease labor demand purely due to uncertainty about worker quality.

4. Discussion

    To understand how AI is transforming labor markets, it is crucial to understand its impact on demand across diverse skill sets,
distinguishing between jobs that AI can substitute and those it can complement. In this paper, we analyze job posting data from
online labor markets, which are highly flexible and quick to react to external changes. We use transformer-based topic modeling
to cluster over 3 million job postings into 116 fine-grained skill clusters. Additionally, we employ prompt engineering to label
these clusters as substitutable by, complementary to, or unaffected by AI. Finally, we employ a difference in differences analysis to
study the impact of ChatGPT’s release on demand across 71 skill clusters which we have categorized as either substitutable by or
complementary to AI.
    Following the introduction of ChatGPT, we find a reduction in demand of approximately 24% for skills deemed substitutable
by LLMs compared to unaffected skill clusters, illustrating the potential of LLMs to automate certain tasks historically performed
by humans. Conversely, the overall demand for skills complementary to LLMs did not change significantly. However, some
complementary skill clusters, such as those related to chatbot development and machine learning, showed substantial increases
in demand, while others experienced slight decreases. Regarding wages and geography, substitutable skills are associated with
higher wages and are typically performed by freelancers in high-wage countries. In contrast, complementary skills exhibit a broader
wage spectrum and are often performed by freelancers from middle-income countries. The impact varies by project duration and
worker experience levels, with demand decreasing mainly in short-term projects within the substitutable category. Moreover, while
complementary skill clusters did not see a reduction in demand as a whole, novice workers within complementary skill clusters
experienced a significant contraction.
    Our results provide a nuanced perspective on the labor market effects of generative AI technologies like ChatGPT and other LLMs.
Unlike previous literature, which focused primarily on a limited subset of skill clusters in the online freelancing market (Hui et al.,
2023; Demirci et al., 2023; Qiao et al., 2023; Liu et al., 2023), our analysis reveals both job destruction in the substitution category
and job creation in certain complementary skill clusters. Within the writing and translation sectors, our study uncovers significant
heterogeneity: for instance, demand for ‘‘about us’’ page writing has decreased more than for multilingual and technical writing,
while translation demand is most affected for Western European languages. Although the decline in demand for substitutable work
is concerning, it is predominantly concentrated in short-term gigs rather than long-term projects. Additionally, we highlight the role
of new technologies in driving job creation, exemplified by the increased demand for AI-powered chatbots. The advancements in
LLMs have significantly improved chatbot quality, significantly expanding their possible use cases and consequently driving higher
demand for chatbot development.
    The decrease in demand for novice workers within complementary skill clusters may seem to contradict experimental evidence
suggesting that AI tools benefit inexperienced workers the most (Noy and Zhang, 2023; Brynjolfsson et al., 2023). However, while
these experimental studies are conducted in controlled environments where workers are directly given the AI tools, in the real labor
market, it is typically companies or clients who outsource work to freelancers. Thus, novice workers within firms may benefit from
AI tools, reducing the need to hire external freelancers. This underscores the fact that the impact of technologies on workers depends
on how tools are implemented and who is provided access to them.
    This paper’s analysis has limitations. First, online labor platforms evolve over time, introducing new features and disabling
others, which introduces a degree of noise into our data collection. As outlined in Section 2.3, skill names change over time
(e.g., Photoshop to Adobe Photoshop), and as discussed in Section 2.2, we have occasional gaps in our data due to software errors and
platform interface changes. However, using transformer-based hierarchical topic modeling, we create a stable time series of skill
clusters. Our results remained consistent when controlling for or excluding the few problematic periods, indicating that the missing
data adds only random noise rather than systematic bias. Another limitation is our reliance on GPT-4 for labeling skill clusters
exposure to automation. This is a highly challenging task, even for expert human labelers, as it requires specialized knowledge

                                                                  16
