O. Teutloff et al.                                                                                    Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization 235 (2025) 106845




                     Fig. 2. (a) Distribution of the number of skill tags per job posting. (b) Overall distribution of the skill tags in the data set.




    To estimate the effect at the skill cluster level we use the following regression model

         log(𝑃 𝑜𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑠𝑖𝑡 ) = 𝛽0 + 𝛽1 Treated𝑖 + 𝛾After𝑡 + 𝛿𝑖 (Treated𝑖 × After𝑡 ) + 𝜖𝑖𝑡 ,                                                                       (2)

where Treated𝑖 = 1 whenever the cluster is in the substitutable or complementary categories and 𝛿𝑖 corresponds to the effect on
skill cluster 𝑖.
    The log transformation on the outcome variables of Eqs. (1) and (2) allows us to interpret the estimated 𝛿’s as the percentage
changes in postings caused by the launch of ChatGPT. To account for possible correlation within skill clusters, we cluster our standard
errors at the skill-cluster level.
    For the difference-in-differences model to capture the causal effect of the ChatGPT launch on labor demand, we need to make
the standard parallel trends assumption, i. e. that in the absence of treatment, the difference between the two treatment groups and
the control group would have remained unchanged. In our setting, this implies that we need to assume that the ChatGPT launch
would not have had an effect on the demand for labor in the unaffected cluster. While this is ultimately untestable, we demonstrate
that the control group and the two treatment groups evolved almost in parallel before the launch of ChatGPT.
    There are some additional threats to our identification strategy that we cannot address. The platform in question may have made
marketing decisions or pricing changes after the launch of ChatGPT. If these activities were concentrated on skill clusters labeled
as substitutable or complementary, the difference-in-differences design might partly capture these non-ChatGPT effects. However,
web analytics data from , indicates that monthly traffic on the platform has remained approximately constant around the ChatGPT
launch date. Moreover, there were wide concerns about a labor shortage — i.e. a large number of unfilled vacancies — in the U.S. in
months around the launch of ChatGPT. This could have led to an increased demand for platform labor. Given that all three groups
showed similar trends before the ChatGPT launch, it is unclear why this business cycle effect would be stronger for skill clusters in
the unaffected and complementary categories, though.

3. Results

3.1. Descriptive results

3.1.1. Skill requirements of job postings
    Before examining the impact of LLMs on online labor markets, we present a descriptive analysis of our dataset. As illustrated
in Fig. 2(a), most job postings list between three to eight skills, with a median of five skills per job posting. The ubiquity of skills
across job postings is highly heterogeneous, as depicted in Fig. 2(b). Popular skills such as JavaScript, graphic design, and content
writing appear in nearly a million job postings, highlighting their fundamental role in the gig economy. Conversely, specialized
skills like English-Dutch translation, PowerPoint expertise, and deep neural network development are featured in approximately a
thousand job postings, reflecting their niche demand. Additionally, highly specialized skills such as Montessori education or specific
sign languages are mentioned only a handful of times, indicating a very limited but specific demand.

3.1.2. Embedding space and AI exposure labels
    Our clustering and labeling methodology results in 116 skill clusters, of which 12 clusters are labeled as ‘substitutable’ (i. e.,
those types of jobs can be conducted by a non-expert with the help of LLMs), 59 as ‘complementary’ (i. e., those jobs in which the
use of LLMs increases productivity substantially, but which still require expert knowledge) and 45 as ‘unaffected’ (i. e., those job
types where LLMs do not help freelancers or where they lead only to a non-substantial productivity increase). Appendix C showcases
examples of skill clusters, their representative skills, their assigned category, and the reasoning provided by GPT for the category
assignment.

                                                                                    7
