O. Teutloff et al.                                                              Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization 235 (2025) 106845

across a vast array of skills. By using GPT-4, we were able to efficiently label a wide range of skills, allowing for a comprehensive
and consistent categorization of all job postings in the online labor market. We minimized errors using state-of-the-art prompt
engineering, measuring accuracy with a test set, and performing manual checks.
    In addition, this paper focuses on the partial equilibrium effects of new technology and does not capture potential productivity
increases outside of the platform under study. Technological improvements can decrease worker demand, but productivity gains
can lead to new capital and organizational investments, potentially increasing labor demand Acemoglu and Restrepo (2018), Autor
and Salomons (2018). To better understand how substitution of freelancers with GenAI tools affects in house labor, one would need
to model the fragmentation of production into tasks in more detail (Rubbo, 2023).
    A further limitation is that we only observe labor demand but not wages. Thus, we cannot definitively attribute changes in
job postings to shifts in the demand curve. Workers might decrease their wage bids if they face more competition, or they might
increase their wage bids if they believe ChatGPT enhances their value. However, previous research (Dube et al., 2020; Duch-Brown
et al., 2022; Horton, 2021) suggests that online labor market workers have low bargaining power and act as price-takers. Moreover,
our analysis indicates, that our results are not substantially biased by simultaneity issues arising from labor supply responses to
the ChatGPT launch. Specifically, we demonstrate that while the launch of ChatGPT led to a decrease in labor demand, average
employer budgets remained unchanged. Additionally, we observe an increase in the number of applicants per job posting is of the
same magnitude than the reduction in job postings. These findings collectively support the conclusion that ChatGPT’s launch led to
reduced labor demand, with workers competing for a smaller pool of substitutable jobs.
    While this analysis focuses on the short-term impacts of LLMs, understanding the long-term effects requires examining how these
impacts vary based on workers’ skills (Teutloff et al., 2023; Mealy et al., 2018), location (Farinha et al., 2020; Braesemann et al.,
2022), and the alignment between current skills and those needed for emerging jobs (Neffke et al., 2024; Neffke and Henning,
2013). Our results provide evidence of first-order demand changes, which can be integrated into more complex models of worker
adaptation (del Rio-Chanona et al., 2021; Acemoglu and Autor, 2011) to answer the broader question on the long-term effects of
LLMs. Future research could examine the timing of demand shifts more precisely, investigating how long it takes employers to
incorporate AI-driven tools and what the transition period looks like. Looking more at the firm side could reveal more about how to
generalize from findings on contract work platforms to traditional labor markets. In addition, further work could explore whether
the tasks whose demand decreased are now performed more effectively, performed differently, or not performed at all.
    Our study reveals that a greater proportion of skill clusters are complemented by AI rather than substituted. However, while some
of these complementary skill clusters experienced an increase in demand, others saw a decline. This underscores the critical role of
public and private decision-makers in shaping the socio-economic impact of AI (Ritala et al., 2023; Gerling et al., 2024). Managers
and policy-makers need to support workers in adapting and reskilling and should empower them to use LLMs in complementary
ways (Retkowsky et al., 2024; Mollick et al., 2024). Our findings from online labor markets, which adapt quickly to technological
changes, provide insights into potential future effects on traditional labor markets. Although traditional markets may adapt more
slowly due to contract and severance laws, they will likely follow similar patterns over time. Policymakers must implement
reskilling and upskilling programs to help workers transition into roles that complement AI technologies, focusing on foundational
skills (Hosseinioun et al., 2023) and analytical thinking (Humburg and Van der Velden, 2017). Overall, our study demonstrates that
while AI tools like ChatGPT can substitute some jobs, it also drives the development of new products and services, exemplifying
creative destruction (Klimek et al., 2012) and contributing to the economy’s evolution towards greater complexity (Balland et al.,
2022).

Statements

Declaration of generative AI in scientific writing

    During the preparation of this work the authors used ChatGPT 4.0 in order to improve the readability and language of the
manuscript. After using this tool, the authors reviewed and edited the content as needed and take full responsibility for the content
of the publication.

Funding information

   Otto Kässi’s work was funded by TT-säätiö (project title: ‘‘Tekoäly työelämässä – Miten käy Suomen kilpailukyvyn?’’).
   R. Maria del Rio-Chanona’s research was supported by the James S. McDonnell Foundation.
   Fabian Braesemann is supported by funding from the Oxford Internet Institute’s Research Programme on AI & Work, funded by
the Dieter Schwarz Stiftung gGmbH.
   We are grateful for the support obtained by Open AI in providing access to the GPT API.
   The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.

Declaration of competing interest

    The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared
to influence the work reported in this paper.

                                                                 17
