O. Teutloff et al.                                                                  Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization 235 (2025) 106845

to be the main job types affected by the launch of the ChatGPT (Hui et al., 2023; Qiao et al., 2023; Liu et al., 2023) and instead
allows us to measure the impact across a broader range of substitutable and complementary skill clusters. Finally, we employ a
difference-in-differences econometric model using the unaffected clusters as a control group to quantify changes in demand across
substitutable and complementary skill clusters after the release of ChatGPT.
    Our results show that while the demand for unaffected and complementary clusters increased after the introduction of ChatGPT,
the number of job postings in the substitutable clusters decreased by 7%. The difference-in-differences analysis reveals that,
compared to the unaffected clusters, substitutable clusters experienced a 25% decline, while complementary clusters as a whole
showed no significant effects. When distinguishing projects by their duration, we find that the decrease in substitutable job postings
was concentrated in short-term (1–3 weeks) jobs. In terms of worker experience, heterogeneity across substitutable clusters is limited.
However, we find a decline in job postings for novice workers in complementary skill clusters.
    At a cluster level, those related to writing for Real Estate and ‘About Us’ pages showed the most substantial decreases, at 52%
and 59%, respectively. Translation jobs also saw significant impacts, with the ‘Western European Languages’ category experiencing
a 23% decline. While complementary clusters did not show significant aggregate effects, demand changes were mixed within these
clusters. Notably, the demand for jobs in the ‘AI-powered chatbots’ cluster nearly tripled, with a 179% increase, and the ‘Machine
Learning’ cluster saw a significant rise, with demand increasing by 24%.
    Our findings present a nuanced view of the impact of ChatGPT on labor demand. While we observe similar trends to those
reported by Demirci et al. (2023), Hui et al. (2023), Liu et al. (2023), Qiao et al. (2023) regarding substitutable tasks, our analysis
indicates that these decreases are primarily concentrated in short-term gigs. Moreover, although there is no aggregate decline in
complementary skills, we find a reduced demand for novice workers in these clusters. This may appear to contradict the findings
of Noy and Zhang (2023) and Brynjolfsson et al. (2023), who found that LLM tools boost the productivity of novice workers.
However, this may result from the complex dynamics of the labor market, where increased productivity of novice workers within
firms may reduce the need for novice freelancers. Thus, while LLMs usage enhance the efficiency of in-house novice workers, it could
diminish external demand for similar freelance skills. This suggests a shift toward specialized expertise for freelancer demand rather
than uniform growth across all complementary areas. Our results also show that while some complementary skill clusters experienced
significant declines, others, particularly those related to programming and software development, saw substantial increases.
    Overall, our analysis underscores the importance of considering the specific nature of tasks and the context of AI implementation
when assessing its impact on labor markets. The heterogeneity in outcomes suggests that integrating AI into work processes can
create both winners and losers, depending on how AI technologies are utilized and the specific skill sets involved.

2. Data and methods

2.1. Research design

   To measure the impact of LLMs on labor demand at a granular skill level, we distinguish between skill clusters that are
substitutable by, complementary to, or unaffected by LLMs. We then analyze how demand for these skills changes in an online
labor platform around the time of the public release of ChatGPT on November 30, 2022.
   Our analysis focuses on data from a leading online labor platform, where job postings list detailed skill requirements. We use the
transformer model BERTopic (Grootendorst, 2022) to group job postings into clusters based on their skill requirements. To assess the
robustness of our results, we combine hierarchical clustering with a manual inspection of all skill clusters, ensuring that job postings
with similar skill requirements are clustered together. This procedure results in 116 skill clusters. The methodology of inferring skill
clusters from the data is illustrated in Fig. 1.
   Following LLM exposure definitions from previous literature (Qiao et al., 2023; Eloundou et al., 2023) and through prompt
engineering techniques, we design prompts for labeling each skill cluster into substitutable, complementary, and unaffected with
GPT-4o. We manually inspect each cluster label by examining the reasoning provided by GPT and the label coherence within
hierarchical clusters. In the cases where human and GPT labels diverge, we give priority to human labels. This results in 12 skill
clusters in the substitutable category, 59 in the complementary, and 45 in the unaffected category.
   In the last step, similar to other studies assessing the causal impact of LLMs on the labor market (del Rio-Chanona et al., 2024;
Demirci et al., 2023; Qiao et al., 2023; Hui et al., 2023), we use a difference-in-differences (DiD) model to estimate changes in
demand of projects in the online labor market across treatment groups (substitution and complementarity) in comparison to the
control group (unaffected).

2.2. Data

    We use data from one prominent global online freelancing platform, which wished to remain anonymous. Online freelancing
platforms are digital marketplaces that connect buyers and sellers of remotely deliverable work. Prominent examples are Upwork,
Fiverr, or Freelancer. Jobs on these platforms cover a wide range of professional domains, including writing, translation, software
development, design, marketing, or legal services. Employers range from individuals to startups and Fortune 500 companies (Cor-
poraal and Lehdonvirta, 2017). When posting a job, employers specify detailed skill requirements, including a mix of broad skills
such as writing, graphic design or translation and specific skills such as Microsoft Word, Adobe Photoshop or Chinese English translation.
On average, projects require a median of six skills. In addition, every job posting contains a title and a description specifying the
task. For the purpose of identifying skill clusters, we only consider the skill tags, not the job title or the text of the job description.

                                                                    3
