2.2     Measurement of Generative AI Use

When designing our survey, a key goal was to enable comparisons to the historical adoption
of other technologies. To facilitate these comparisons, we use existing technology adoption
questions from the CPS Computer and Internet Use supplement (CIU) as a template for our
own questions regarding genAI. In the CIU, the leading question about computer adoption at
work for employed respondents was:

        Do you [directly] use a computer for your job? (No/Yes)

A second question asks about computer use at home:

        Do you [directly] use a computer at home? (No/Yes)

These questions were asked in 1984, 1989, 1993, 1997, 2001, and 2003, with the word “directly”
being omitted in the last two years.4

      The RPS genAI module begins with a definition of genAI:

        Generative AI is a type of artificial intelligence that creates text, images, audio, or video
        in response to prompts. Some examples of Generative AI include ChatGPT, Gemini, and
        Midjourney.

We included examples of popular genAI products because we thought some respondents may be
more familiar with those product names than with the broader concept of genAI. After defining
genAI, the module asks respondents whether they had heard of the concept prior to the survey.
Overall, 88.4% reported having heard of genAI; the remaining 11.6% who answered “No” skip
the remainder of the module. Respondents who answer “Yes” continue with the survey.

      For employed respondents, the next question asks about genAI use at work:

        Do you use Generative AI for your job? (No/Yes)

This question is designed to mirror the analogous computer use question from the CIU, discussed
above. We opted for the version asked from 2001 onwards that omitted the word “directly.”

      Another question later in the survey asks about genAI usage outside work:

        Do you use Generative AI [outside your job]? (No/Yes)
  4
      Starting in 2001, the CIU also asked about internet usage.


                                                        5
