1984, three years after the release of the IBM PC (the first mass-market computer). The com-
puter and related information technologies induced far-reaching changes in firm organization
and management, which led to substantial productivity gains (Brynjolfsson and Hitt, 1996).
The similar pace of genAI adoption thus far suggests that it has the potential to be similarly
disruptive. Moreover, we show that genAI adoption by workers is proceeding at a faster pace
than adoption by firms, highlighting both challenges and opportunities for managers seeking to
capitalize on this new technology (Babina et al., 2024; Bonney et al., 2024; Doshi and Moore,
2025; McElheran et al., 2024).2

    Second, which workers are currently using genAI, and what factors contribute to an individ-
ual’s adoption decision? We find substantial variation in genAI adoption across demographic
and labor market characteristics. Adoption has been faster for male, younger, more educated,
and higher-wage workers. Adoption also differs greatly by occupation, suggesting that differ-
ences in job roles and responsibilities are an important determinant of adoption. Consistent
with this, we show that recent estimates of genAI task-based exposure are highly predictive of
actual adoption (Eloundou et al., 2024; Felten et al., 2021), and that occupations with lower
adoption also have higher shares of workers who report that genAI is not useful for their job.
These findings contribute to our understanding of how genAI maps onto specific tasks and
roles within the firm, which is relevant both for allocating adoption support and adapting firm
organization.

   We provide evidence that firm climate and policies also appear to play an important role
in workers’ adoption choice. A sizable share of workers who do not use genAI cite workplace
barriers as a key reason, and this share is particularly large in a few occupations who may deal
with sensitive data. Alternatively, workers whose employers encourage them to use genAI are
much more likely to do so, even after controlling for other characteristics. This suggests that
when job tasks are amenable to genAI adoption, firms can play an active role by promoting
usage, offering training, and removing organizational barriers to adoption.

   Third, how large are potential productivity gains from genAI? Based on self-reported time
savings due to genAI, the average genAI user would need to work 5.2% more hours in order to
complete their work without genAI, implying 1.4% time savings across all workers (including
non-users). We use a standard production model to estimate potential productivity gains at the
industry and aggregate level. We find wide variation in potential productivity gains by industry,
   2
    The Census BTOS Survey estimates between August and November 2024 5.4% of firms had incorporated
AI technologies into their production process. This suggests that firm-based measures may miss an important
share of genAI adoption. Aaron Levie, the founder and CEO of Box, a cloud storage provider, compares this
pattern with past technologies: “It’s almost a one-to-one parallel with the early wave of consumerization of IT.
We saw that exact same dynamic in the early 2010s, which was employees of enterprises were pretty frustrated
with their traditional document management and collaboration technology, and so they would go out and just
go onto a web browser, sign up for a Box account, and then bring it into their organization.” (Levine, 2024)



                                                       2
