sson et al., 2021). To gain early insights into potential productivity gains from genAI, this
section documents worker-reported time savings and shows how this data can inform estimates
of aggregate and industry/firm-level productivity gains.


5.1    How Much Do Workers Use Generative AI?

We begin by documenting sizable variation in the intensity of genAI use among workers. This
is important because, as we show in the next section, workers who use genAI more intensively
tend to experience greater time savings.

   Figure 8a reports how much time genAI users spent using the technology in a given day.
Specifically, we ask “Please think back to the days LAST WEEK on which you used Generative
AI at work. On average, how much time did you spend actively using Generative AI at work? ”
Respondents could select from three options: 15 minutes or less per day, between 15 minutes
and one hour per day, or more than an hour per day.13

    Figure 8a shows that 36.9% of genAI users report using genAI for an hour or more per day
at work, 42.8% used it for between 15 and 60 minutes per day, and 20.3% used it for less than
15 minutes per day. We also show these estimates separately by workers’ daily frequency of
use. Frequency and intensity of genAI use are positively correlated. 65.7% of daily genAI users
report using it an hour or more each day, compared to only 6.4% of those who used it in the
last month but not the last week. Overall, our results indicate wide variation in the frequency
and intensity of genAI use at work.

    We estimate bounds on the share of total work hours assisted by genAI by combining
data on usage intensity with data on days and hours worked in the previous week. (For this
calculation, we restrict attention to our November 2024 wave, which contains more detailed
intensity categories; see Appendix Figure B.2). For example, consider a worker who reports
(i) working 40 hours last week over 5 days, (ii) using genAI on multiple but not all workdays
last week, and (iii) using genAI for between 15 and 59 minutes per day on days that they used
it. The lower bound implies the respondent used genAI on two days for 15 minutes each day
(15/59 · 2/40 = 1.3% of their weekly hours); the upper bound implies using genAI on four
workdays for 1 hour each day (1 · 4/40 = 10% of their weekly hours).

    We first aggregate these estimates across the 26.4% of workers in the November 2024 wave
who report using genAI in the past week. Among workers who use genAI, between 4.9 and 19.2%
of all work hours were assisted by genAI. Next, we include the 73.6% of non-genAI-workers in
our calculation, who spend no time using genAI by construction. Among all workers, between
  13
    Respondents who did not use genAI last week but did use it in the last four weeks were asked about their
average usage on the days they used genAI over the last four weeks.


                                                    19
