1.6% and 6.6% of total work hours were assisted by genAI.


5.2   Reported Time Savings Due to Generative AI

In the November 2024 wave, we asked workers who used genAI in the previous week to estimate
how much time genAI saved them in the past week:


      You indicated that LAST WEEK you worked X hours and that you used Generative AI
      for your job. Now, imagine that LAST WEEK you did not have access to Generative AI.
      How many additional hours of work would you have needed to complete the same amount
      of work?     [For X we fill in the respondent’s reported hours worked last week.]


    The answer options were: Less than 1 hour, 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours, 4 hours, More than 4
hours. For respondents who selected “less than 1 hour”, we assume that genAI saved zero hours
of work. For respondents who selected “more than 4 hours,” we assume that genAI saved 4
hours of work. These assumptions are conservative in the sense that they reflect a lower bound
of time savings.

    Figure 9 reports the results: 34.2% said genAI saved them an hour or less last week, 25.4%
reported two hours, 19.9% reported three hours, and 20.4% reported four hours or more. More
frequent users report higher average time savings. Among workers who used genAI every day
last week, 36.8% reported saving four hours or more, compared to 10.4% of respondents who
used it one day last week.

    For each genAI user, we compute the share of working hours saved as the ratio of time saved
last week to hours worked last week. We find an average time savings of 5.2% of work hours
by genAI users in the November 2024 wave, or about 2.1 hours for a 40-weekly-hour worker.
When we include all workers, including non-users, on average genAI saved workers saved 1.4%
of total hours.


5.3   Potential Productivity Gains from Generative AI By Industry

We now present a standard production model to demonstrate how our data on genAI use and
time savings can be used to estimate productivity gains on the industry or aggregate level.
Detailed derivations can be found in Appendix D.1.




                                              21
