A       RPS: Measurement and Definitions

A.1     Sample Restrictions

The Qualtrics panel includes about 15 million members and is not a random sample of the U.S.
population. However, researchers can instruct Qualtrics to target survey invitations to specific
demographic groups. The RPS sample was designed to be nationally representative of the
U.S. across gender, age, education, household income, and other demographic characteristics.
Individuals who take the survey too fast, i.e. in less than 50% of the median time in a soft launch,
or who do not state that they will provide their best answers, are automatically dropped from
the sample.1 Finally, once fielding is completed Qualtrics staff goes over all responses and
filters out any that look suspicious. This is typically the case for around 10% of the responses.
We also screened manually out responses whose responses to the free text question about the
industry appear to be generated by a bot taking the survey. This was the case for less than 10
responses in each survey.

    The pilot survey in June 2024 received 2,551 responses. Our full surveys in August and
November 2024 received 5,014 and 5,329 responses, respectively. In each survey, we dropped
less than 40 respondents because they either reported their industry and/or occupation as
military or because they reported being employed but also reported being homemakers, retired,
or unemployed as their occupation. Table A.1 show the raw sample composition for the pooled
August and November 2024 surveys after these observations were dropped.

    We also include occupation in our weighting scheme. This requires us to drop another
108, 112, and 113 observations due to missing occupation codes for the June, August, and
November surveys, respectively. We drop another 70, 154, and 145 employed respondents after
constructing weights because we lack information on their Generative AI use at work last week.
All of these dropped respondents were classified as “employed, absent from work last week” as
they by construction cannot have used Generative AI last week. Accounting for all individuals
dropped from our analysis, this leaves us with a final sample size of 94.7%, 96.8%, and 96.9%
of the initially collected responses for the June and August surveys, respectively.

   Table A.1 compares the sample composition between the CPS and RPS along the demo-
graphics targeted in the sampling procedure for our main surveys (columns 1 and 2). The most
notable discrepancies are that individuals aged 18 to 24 and with no more than a high school
    1
    The exact phrasing of the screener question is: “We care about the quality of our survey data and hope to
receive the most accurate measure of your opinions, so it is important to us that you thoughtfully provide your
best answer to each question in the survey. Do you commit to providing your thoughtful and honest answers
to the questions in this survey?” with the following three answer options (1) I will provide my best answers,
(2) I will not provide my best answers, and (3) I can’t promise either way. According to Qualtrics staff, this
question provides the best results in terms of screening out respondents.


                                                      1
