   A key question is whether genAI’s faster adoption was driven by work or non-work use.10
The faster overall pace of genAI adoption compared with PCs is driven by non-work adoption.
The middle pair of bars in Figure 2 plots work adoption of genAI and PCs. We find similar
work adoption rates for genAI after two years (32%) and PCs after three years (25%). By
contrast, the bottom pair of bars in Figure 2 reveals much higher non-work adoption rates for
genAI (38%) compared with PCs (5%).

   The computer and related information technologies induced far-reaching changes in firm
organization and management, which led to substantial productivity gains (Brynjolfsson and
Hitt, 1996). The similar pace of genAI adoption by workers thus far suggests that this new
technology could also be transformative for firms. At the same time, the choice of whether to
adopt a technology depends on both its benefits and costs. PCs required purchasing expensive
immobile hardware and nontrivial training. In contrast, many genAI products are free or
inexpensive and user-friendly. On the one hand, this lower adoption cost likely contributes to
genAI’s rapid uptake. On the other hand, this means that similar adoption rates for PCs and
genAI at work do not necessarily imply equivalent benefits.


4         Which Workers Use Generative AI?

In this section, we document that early genAI adoption has not been uniform throughout
the workforce. Understanding which workers are adopting genAI at higher rates provides
several important insights. First, because many workers are adopting genAI ahead of firm-level
adoption, variation in genAI use can help managers allocate support, training, and integration
efforts. Second, we show that employer encouragement of genAI use is highly predictive of
adoption, suggesting that firms and managers can influence the nature and extent of genAI use
in their organization. Third, adoption patterns shed light on how genAI maps onto specific
tasks and roles within the firm, which is relevant for decisions regarding job redesign and firm
reorganization.

   Figure 3 documents demographic heterogeneity in work adoption of genAI. The top panel
shows genAI adoption is 6 percentage points higher for men. The middle panel show genAI
adoption by age. Workers aged 18-49 have similar adoption rates, while adoption is lower for
workers aged 50-64. The bottom panel shows that adoption rates are increasing in educational
attainment. In particular, workers with a Bachelor’s degree or more use genAI at roughly
twice the rate of non-college educated workers. Differences between demographic groups are
primarily driven by users who use genAI every workday or at least once in the previous week.

         Figure 4 plots the kernel density of genAI adoption by weekly earnings percentile. Adoption
    10
         Unfortunately, internet adoption data do not allow us to distinguish work from non-work adoption.


                                                         10
