Non-employed respondents are not shown the term in brackets. While the CIU asks about
computer use “at home”, we use slightly different language to account for respondents who use
genAI on mobile devices outside of their home.

   The survey asks several follow-up questions of genAI users regarding which products they
used, how intensively they used it, and how much time they saved, always distinguishing
between work and non-work use.

   An important caveat regarding our measurement approach is that it will only capture genAI
use that respondents are aware of. For example, while typing prompts into ChatGPT is an
obvious case of using genAI, automatic AI-assisted writing suggestions are a more subtle case
that respondents may not consider. Because our estimates may not detect some passive or
embedded uses of the technology, we interpret our estimates a lower bound on the extent of
genAI adoption.


3       How Prevalent is Generative AI Use?

Figure 1a displays the share of August and November 2024 RPS respondents who report using
genAI. The samples for the “Overall” and “Outside of Work” bars are all respondents, while
the sample for the “For Work” bar is employed respondents. The overall estimates reflect the
share who use genAI either for work or outside of work.

    The first bar shows that 45.5% of respondents report using genAI either at work or at
home: 10.4% used it every day, 26.7% used it some but not all days, and 8.3% did not use
it in the last week. The second bar shows that 32.1% of workers used genAI at work: 10.5%
used it every work day and 16.7% on some but not all workdays, bringing total weekly usage
to 27.2%. Outside of work, usage is higher overall (37.7%) but less intensive, with only 5.6%
of all respondents using it every day last week.


3.1     How Do Our Results Compare to Other Estimates?

The RPS is administered by Qualtrics. To provide a second source of data, in December 2024 we
fielded our genAI module through the Survey of Working Arrangements and Attitudes (SWAA)
by Barrero et al. (2021).5 The SWAA uses a different survey provider (IncQuery) but targets
a similar sample intended to be representative of the U.S. population ages 20-64. Figure 1b
displays analogous results from the SWAA. 46.5% of SWAA respondents reported using genAI
overall, versus 45.5% of RPS respondents. We find similar estimates for work (33.3% SWAA,
    5
    See Appendix C for more details on the SWAA, how we construct weights to maximize comparability
between the SWAA and RPS, and some validation exercises.


                                                6
