increase in employment in software development occupations since the release of ChatGPT.
      There are a variety of occupation codes that relate to computer programming, corre-
sponding to codes 1005 through 1108. While software developers represent the largest share
of employment in this group, one possibility is that employment gains for software developers
come from reclassification of workers away from other coding occupations to software devel-
opment.7 Figure 2 shows the employment and earnings trends for all computer occupations
aggregated together. The results again suggest little evidence of a decline in employment or
real earnings.
      The other series in Figure 2 show employment and earnings trends for customer service
representatives, another occupation in the top quartile of AI exposure. Brynjolfsson et al.
(2025) find that access to AI assistance increases worker productivity, as measured by issues
resolved per hour, by 15% on average for customer service representatives, with substan-
tial heterogeneity across workers. Figure 2 suggests that employment in customer service
representatives has declined since the release of ChatGPT.
      These findings raise the question of which occupational characteristics may influence the
employment effects of AI given some level of measured exposure. Figure 3 shows employment
trends for the most exposed quartile of occupations split by whether the college share in the
occupation is above or below the median. The results suggest employment share increases in
more educated exposed occupations and employment share declines in less educated exposed
occupations in the periods before and after the release of ChatGPT.


4.3       Labor Market Trends for Entry-Level Workers

In recent months there has been a growing concern that AI is beginning to displace entry-
level workers (Thompson, 2025; Raman, 2025; Allen, 2025). The top panel of Figure 4 shows
the employment share trends for entry level versus experienced workers. The analysis shows
that entry level workers have cyclical and volatile employment compared to more experienced
  7
      See Van Dam (2025) for a discussion of trends across different computer occupations.



                                                      9
