measure AI’s impact. Recent findings have been varied. Humlum and Vestergaard (2025) use
Danish administrative data to find minimal effects on earnings or hours worked, while Jiang
et al. (2025) find AI exposure is correlated with longer work hours in the U.S.4 This paper
adds additional color to this growing set of findings. In line with Humlum and Vestergaard
(2025), I find little evidence of an aggregate decline in employment for exposed occupations.
However, in contrast to their work, I find heterogeneity in employment trends across exposed
occupations, with these differences correlated with features such as education. The diver-
gent paths of software developers and customer service representatives, for example, suggest
nuance in predictions of labor market changes for exposed workers.5
    Finally, this work highlights an important methodological issue: the divergence between
job postings and employment data. Recent studies have used job postings to measure shifts
in labor demand from AI (e.g., Acemoglu et al. (2022); Hampole et al. (2025)). This paper
shows that for key occupations, these two data sources tell different stories. The decline in
software developer job postings since 2022, for instance, contrasts sharply with their stable-
to-growing employment in the CPS. This finding serves as an important empirical caution
in interpreting job posting trends as reflective of employment or earnings. The CPS data
used here provides a transparent and timely alternative for tracking realized outcomes as
they unfold for a representative sample of the U.S. population.
   4
     See also Acemoglu et al. (2022); Bonney et al. (2024); Bick et al. (2024); Hartley et al. (2024); Frank
et al. (2025); Chen et al. (2025); Hampole et al. (2025). The Federal Reserve Bank of New York tracks
employment by college major using the American Community Survey (ACS), as documented in Abel and
Deitz (2017). While the ACS has rich sociodemographic and economic information, it is released annually
and with a time lag. As of Q2 2025 the latest ACS data is from 2023, in the initial year of LLM adoption.
   5
     Another closely related paper is Deming et al. (2025), which combines data from the decennial Census,
American Community Survey, and CPS to track labor market changes over 120 years. This paper comple-
ments their work by directly associating employment changes with measures of AI exposure and by tracking
labor market trends specifically over the post-ChatGPT time period.




                                                     4
