(CPS) data through Q1 2025. Using the GPT-4-based occupational exposure metrics from
Eloundou et al. (2024), I examine realized employment and earnings trends to measure
whether, and how, disruption from new AI technologies is appearing in the U.S. workforce.
       The central finding is that the most AI-exposed set of occupations has not experienced a
declining share of employment, though among this group there is considerable heterogeneity
in labor market trends. Software occupations, which are estimated to have high exposure to
generative AI, show employment gains as of the first quarter of 2025. In contrast, customer
service representatives, who also have high measured exposure, have experienced relative
employment declines. More broadly, within the most exposed quartile, occupations with a
higher share of college-educated workers have experienced faster employment growth over
the prior four years compared to occupations with a lower college share. The results suggest
a nuanced view of how measured AI or automation exposure affect employment, with worker
characteristics such as education potentially influencing displacement from new technologies.
While the results do not identify a causal impact of AI on labor market outcomes, they clarify
facts about the state of the US labor market and suggest avenues for further study on how
AI impacts workers.1
       Given growing concern over AI’s impact on early-career roles, I also examine trends for
entry-level workers (Thompson, 2025; Raman, 2025; Allen, 2025). Employment for entry-
level workers is volatile and cyclical, making it difficult to discern trends. With more time
and larger surveys it may become apparent whether there are sustained changes in labor
market outcomes for entry-level workers, but so far evidence from the CPS is inconclusive.
       A further contribution of this paper is to highlight the divergence between employment
and job postings. While Indeed job postings for software development show a decline from
a peak in early 2022, CPS employment data indicate stable or even increasing employment
through Q1 2025. The disconnect between job postings and employment also tracks with
   1
    Another way to interpret the results is that current AI exposure and automation measures may do a poor
job of predicting the true labor market impacts of AI, at least in the relatively short time period considered
here. This contrasts with findings in prior seminal work such as Autor et al. (2003) that showed that task
exposure to computerization strongly predicted changes in relative labor demand.


                                                      2
