on teen employment across all groups that increased their minimum wage is a 3.1% reduction in teen
employment. This estimate is much different from the TWFE estimate. In addition, the pattern of
dynamic treatment effects where the magnitude of the effect of increasing the minimum wage tends to
increase with length of exposure is the same as in the unconditional case.
    Overall, our results suggest that increasing the minimum wage decreased teen employment relative to
what it would have been without the policy change. However, there are some important limitations of our
application. First, some of the estimates of pseudo group-time average treatment effects in pre-treatment
periods in Figure 1 are significantly different from zero which provides some suggestive evidence against
the parallel trends assumption. Second, as discussed in the Supplementary Appendix, there is some
heterogeneity in the size of the minimum wage increase itself across states which could complicate the
interpretation of our results. Together, these suggest that our results should be interpreted with some
caution. That being said, we think that the key takeaway from the application is that, (implicitly) holding
the main identifying assumptions constant, in a prominent application in economics that has many very
common features (treatment effect heterogeneity, dynamic effects, and staggered treatment adoption) the
choice of estimation method can potentially lead to qualitatively different conclusions.


6    Conclusion
This paper has considered Difference-in-Differences methods in the case where there are more than two
time periods and units can become treated at different points in time – a commonly encountered setup
in empirical work in economics. In this setup, we have proposed group-time average treatment effects,
AT T (g, t), that are the average treatment effect in period t for the group of units first treated in period
g. Unlike the more common approach of including a post-treatment dummy variable in a two-way fixed
effects regression, AT T (g, t) corresponds to a well defined treatment effect parameter. We also showed
that once AT T (g, t) has been obtained for different values of g and t, they can be aggregated into other
parameters to more concisely summarize heterogeneity with respect to some particular dimension of
interest (such as length of exposure to the treatment) or, alternatively, into a single overall treatment
effect parameter. In addition, our approach is suitable (i) for cases where the parallel trends assumption
holds only after conditioning on covariates, (ii) using different comparison groups such as the never-
treated or not-yet-treated, and (iii) when units can anticipate participating in the treatment and may
adjust their behavior before the treatment is implemented. We view such flexibility as an important
component of our proposed methodology.
    We also provided nonparametric identification results leading to outcome regression, inverse proba-
bility weighting, and doubly robust estimands. Given that our nonparametric identification results are
constructive, we proposed to estimate AT T (g, t) using its sample analogue. We established consistency
and asymptotic normality of the proposed estimators, and proved the validity of a powerful, but easy
to implement, multiplier bootstrap procedure to construct simultaneous confidence bands for AT T (g, t).
The computational costs of our approach are generally low, and code for implementing our approach is
available in the R did package.
    Finally, we applied our approach to study the effect of minimum wage increases on teen employment.
We found some evidence that increasing the minimum wage led to reductions in teen employment. More

                                                     32
