treatment at different lengths of exposure to the treatment.
   Despite the popularity of these specifications, recent research has shown that one must be very careful
in attaching a causal interpretation to these aggregated parameters. For instance, Borusyak and Jaravel
(2017), Goodman-Bacon (2019), de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020), and Athey and Imbens
(2018) have shown that, in general, β recovers a weighted average of some underlying treatment effect
parameters but some of the weights on these parameters can be negative. This can potentially lead to
particularly problematic cases such as the effect of the treatment being positive for all units, but the
TWFE estimation resulting in estimates of β that are negative. Even in cases where the weights are
not negative, the weights on underlying treatment effect parameters are entirely driven by the TWFE
estimation strategy and are sensitive to the size of each group, the timing of treatment, and the total
number of time periods (see Theorem 1 in Goodman-Bacon (2019)). The results in this section can be
used in exactly the same setup to identify a single interpretable average treatment effect parameter and,
thus, provide a way to circumvent the issues with the more common approach.
   As discussed by Goodman-Bacon (2019), the “negative weight problem” associated with β arises when
treatment effects evolve over time. Thus, one may wonder if such problems would still be present when
considering more general, dynamic specifications such as (3.3). Sun and Abraham (2020) shows that this
is still the case as the βe0 s associated with (3.3) do not recover easy-to-interpret causal parameters and
still generally suffer from the same sorts of “negative weighting problems.” In contrast to this, we provide
a simple way to directly aggregate our group-time average treatment effects into average treatment effects
across different lengths of exposure to the treatment.

3.1     Aggregations to Highlight Treatment Effect Heterogeneity
Next, we discuss several partial aggregations of the group-time average treatment effects in order to sum-
marize different dimensions of treatment effect heterogeneity. Although there are additional possibilities,
we focus our discussion below on how to answer three particular questions: (a) How does the effect of
participating in the treatment vary with length of exposure to the treatment? (b) Do groups that are
treated earlier have, on average, higher/lower average treatment effects than groups that are treated
later? (c) What is the cumulative average treatment effect of the policy across all groups until some
particular point in time? Throughout this section, to avoid notation clutter, we assume that units do not
anticipate treatment, i.e., we consider the case where Assumption 3 holds with δ = 0. We also assume
that a “never treated” group is available.

3.1.1    How do average treatment effects vary with length of exposure to the treatment?

One of the most popular questions that arises in DiD setups with multiple time periods concerns treatment
effect dynamics: How does the effect of participating in the treatment vary with length of exposure to the
treatment? For instance, do average treatment effects increase/decrease with elapsed treatment time?
Indeed, answering this type of question is often the main motivation for using the event study regression
in (3.3), though, as we mentioned above, that sort of regression may not be suitable for such a task. In
this section, we propose an aggregation scheme that is suitable to highlight treatment effect heterogeneity
with respect to length of exposure to the treatment that does not suffer from the drawbacks associated


                                                    14
