                                                          Difference-in-Differences with Multiple Time Periods∗

                                                                        Brantly Callaway†                  Pedro H. C. Sant’Anna‡

                                                                                             December 1, 2020
arXiv:1803.09015v4 [econ.EM] 1 Dec 2020




                                                                                                  Abstract

                                                    In this article, we consider identification, estimation, and inference procedures for treatment effect
                                                parameters using Difference-in-Differences (DiD) with (i) multiple time periods, (ii) variation in treat-
                                                ment timing, and (iii) when the “parallel trends assumption” holds potentially only after conditioning
                                                on observed covariates. We show that a family of causal effect parameters are identified in stag-
                                                gered DiD setups, even if differences in observed characteristics create non-parallel outcome dynamics
                                                between groups. Our identification results allow one to use outcome regression, inverse probability
                                                weighting, or doubly-robust estimands. We also propose different aggregation schemes that can be
                                                used to highlight treatment effect heterogeneity across different dimensions as well as to summarize
                                                the overall effect of participating in the treatment. We establish the asymptotic properties of the
                                                proposed estimators and prove the validity of a computationally convenient bootstrap procedure to
                                                conduct asymptotically valid simultaneous (instead of pointwise) inference. Finally, we illustrate the
                                                relevance of our proposed tools by analyzing the effect of the minimum wage on teen employment from
                                                2001–2007. Open-source software is available for implementing the proposed methods.

                                                JEL: C14, C21, C23, J23, J38.
                                                Keywords: Difference-in-Differences, Dynamic Treatment Effects, Doubly Robust, Event Study, Vari-
                                                ation in Treatment Timing, Treatment Effect Heterogeneity, Semi-Parametric.




                                             ∗
                                               First complete version: March 23, 2018. A previous version of this paper has been circulated with the title “Difference-
                                          in-Differences with Multiple Time Periods and an Application on the Minimum Wage and Employment”. We thank the
                                          Editor, the Associate Editor, two anonymous referees, Stéphane Bonhomme, Carol Caetano, Sebastian Calonico, Xiaohong
                                          Chen, Clément de Chaisemartin, Xavier D’Haultfoeuille, Bruno Ferman, John Gardner, Andrew Goodman-Bacon, Federico
                                          Gutierrez, Sukjin Han, Hugo Jales, Andrew Johnston, Vishal Kamat, Qi Li, Tong Li, Jason Lindo, Catherine Maclean, Matt
                                          Masten, Magne Mogstad, Tom Mroz, Aureo de Paula, Jonathan Roth, Donald Rubin, Bernhard Schmidpeter, Yuya Sasaki,
                                          Na’Ama Shenhav, Tymon Sloczyński, Sebastian Tello-Trillo, Alex Torgovitsky, Jeffrey Wooldridge, Haiqing Xu and several
                                          seminar and conference audiences for comments and suggestions. Code to implement the methods proposed in the paper is
                                          available in the R package did which is available on CRAN.
                                             †
                                               Department of Economics, University of Georgia. Email: brantly.callaway@uga.edu
                                             ‡
                                               Department of Economics, Vanderbilt University. Email: pedro.h.santanna@vanderbilt.edu


                                                                                                       1
