average treatment effect estimators. Thus, our proposed confidence bands are arguably more suitable for
visualizing the overall estimation uncertainty than more traditional pointwise confidence intervals.
   We illustrate the practical relevance of our proposal by analyzing the effect of the minimum wage on
teen employment. Here, we follow much empirical work on the effects of the minimum wage and exploit
having access to panel data and variation in treatment timing across states (e.g., Card and Krueger
(1994); Neumark and Wascher (2000, 2008); Dube et al. (2010), among many others) in order to estimate
the effect of the minimum wage on employment. Interestingly, in our setup, using our approach leads
to qualitatively different results than results from the TWFE estimator. This suggests that, at least
in certain applications, using methods that are robust to treatment effect heterogeneity can lead to
meaningful differences relative to more standard TWFE regressions.

   Recent Related Literature: This paper is related to the recent and emerging literature on het-
erogeneous treatment effects in DiD and/or event studies with variation in treatment timing; see, e.g.,
de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020), Goodman-Bacon (2019), Imai et al. (2018), Borusyak and
Jaravel (2017), Athey and Imbens (2018) and Sun and Abraham (2020). All these papers present, among
other things, some negative results about the interpretation of parameters associated with standard
TWFE linear regression specifications; see also Laporte and Windmeijer (2005), Wooldridge (2005a),
Chernozhukov et al. (2013), and Gibbons et al. (2018) for earlier related results based on (one-way) fixed-
effect estimators. Our proposed procedure completely bypasses the pitfalls highlighted in these papers as
we clearly separate the identification, aggregation and estimation/inference steps of the analysis.
   These aforementioned papers also propose alternative DiD estimators that do not suffer from the
pitfalls associated with TWFE. Among these, perhaps the closest to our proposal are those of de Chaise-
martin and D’Haultfœuille (2020), and Sun and Abraham (2020), though several major differences are
worth stressing.
   de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020) is focused on recovering an instantaneous treatment effect
measure, while we pay particular attention to treatment effect dynamics. In fact, our framework allows one
to form families of different aggregate parameters in a unified manner. Second, while we pay particular
attention to the role played by pre-treatment covariates, de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020)
mainly focus on unconditional DiD designs. On the other hand, the setup in de Chaisemartin and
D’Haultfœuille (2020) is more general than ours as we consider staggered adoption designs and they
allow for more general treatment selection. Nonetheless, we note that the unconditional versions of our
parallel trends assumptions are weaker than the one in de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020), even
if one were to specialize their setup to staggered adoption designs.
   Sun and Abraham (2020) proposes a parameter, cohort-specific average treatment effects, that trans-
lates our group-time average treatment effects from calendar time into event time. Sun and Abraham
(2020) proposes regression-based estimators of these parameters that have similar properties to our esti-
mators in the specific case of staggered treatment adoption under an unconditional version of the parallel
trends assumption. However, our approach is more general in several respects. First, we allow for parallel
trends assumptions to hold after conditioning on covariates, and it is not clear how to adapt the regression
based estimators in Sun and Abraham (2020) to this case. Second, we consider a wide variety of possible
aggregations of group-time average treatment effects where Sun and Abraham (2020) focuses particularly


                                                     4
