group g and groups that are “not-yet-treated” by time t + δ.7 Importantly, both of these assumptions
allow for covariate-specific trends and do not restrict the relationship between treatment timing and the
potential outcomes, Yt (g)’s. Thus, they are weaker than the randomization-based assumption made by
Athey and Imbens (2018). We also note that the unconditional versions of Assumptions 4 and 5 are
weaker than the parallel trends assumption imposed by de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020) and
Sun and Abraham (2020) as they impose fewer restrictions on the evolution of Yt (0) in pre-treatment
periods; see, e.g., Marcus and Sant’Anna (2020) for a comparison.
    In our view, practitioners may favor Assumption 4 with respect to Assumption 5 when there is a
sizable group of units that do not participate in the treatment in any period, and, at the same time,
these units are similar enough to the “eventually treated” units. When a “never-treated” group of units
is not available or “too small”, researchers may favor Assumption 5 as it allows one to use more groups
as valid comparison units, which potentially leads to more informative inference procedures. However, it
is important to stress that favoring Assumption 5 with respect to Assumption 4 also involves potential
drawbacks. For instance, in the absence of treatment anticipation (δ = 0), Assumption 4 does not restrict
observed pre-treatment trends across groups, whereas Assumption 5 does; see, e.g., Marcus and Sant’Anna
(2020). Not restricting pre-treatment trends may be particularly meaningful in applications where the
economic environment during the “early-periods” was potentially different from the “later-periods.” In
these cases, the outcomes of different groups may evolve in a non-parallel manner during “early-periods”,
perhaps because the groups were exposed to different shocks, while trends become parallel in the “later-
periods.” We recommend taking these trade-offs into account when deciding which conditional parallel
trends assumption is more appropriate for a given application.8
    The final identifying assumption we impose is an overlap condition.

Assumption 6 (Overlap). For each t ∈ {2, . . . , T }, g ∈ G, there exist some ε > 0 such that P (Gg = 1) >
ε and pg,t (X) < 1 − ε a.s..

    Assumption 6 extends the overlap assumption in Heckman et al. (1997, 1998), Abadie (2005), and
Sant’Anna and Zhao (2020) to the multiple groups and multiple periods setup. It states that a positive
fraction of the population starts treatment in period g, and that, for all g and t, the generalized propensity
score is uniformly bounded away from one. Assumption 6 rules out “irregular identification”, see, e.g.,
Khan and Tamer (2010).

Remark 1. Note that Assumption 3 and Assumption 4 (Assumption 5) are intrinsically connected. For
instance, when one imposes the “no-anticipation” condition (so that δ = 0), Assumption 4 would then
impose conditional parallel trends only for post-treatment periods t ≥ g. If one allows for anticipation
behavior (so that δ > 0), Assumption 4 would then impose conditional parallel trends in some pre-
treatment periods, too. In fact, the parallel trends assumptions become stronger as one increases δ. To

    7
      Athey and Imbens (2006) and de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2017) also consider using “not-yet-treated” units
as comparison groups in related DiD procedures.
    8
      It may be tempting to use statistical pre-tests to select between different versions of the parallel trends assumption.
However, the results of Roth (2020) show that such a practice can lead to important distortions when conducting inference.
Thus, we do not recommend following this path, but instead recommend taking the context of the application into account
in order to choose the appropriate parallel trends assumption.


                                                             9
