where C
      b (g, t) is as defined in Algorithm 1.

Remark 10. In DiD applications, it is common to use “cluster-robust” inference procedures; see, e.g.,
Wooldridge (2003) and Bertrand et al. (2004). However, we note that the choice of whether to cluster
or not is usually not obvious, and depends on the kind of uncertainty one is trying to reflect; see, e.g.,
Abadie et al. (2017) for a discussion in a cross-sectional setup.15 In the case that one wishes to account
for clustering to reflect “cluster-based” sampling uncertainty, we note that this can be done in a straight-
forward manner using a small modification of the multiplier bootstrap described above, provided that the
number of cluster is “large.” More precisely, instead of drawing observation-specific V ’s, one simply needs
to draw cluster-specific V ’s; see, e.g., Sherman and Le Cessie (2007), Kline and Santos (2012), Cheng
et al. (2013), and MacKinnon and Webb (2018, 2020). If the number of clusters is “small,” however,
the application of the aforementioned bootstrap procedure is not warranted.16

Remark 11. In Algorithm 1 we have required an estimator for the main diagonal of Σ. However, we
note that if one takes Σ
                       b (g, t) = 1 for all (g, t), the result in Corollary 1 continues to hold. However, the
resulting “constant width” simultaneous confidence band may be of larger length; see, e.g., Montiel Olea
and Plagborg-Møller (2018) and Freyberger and Rai (2018).

Remark 12. The above results focus on making inference about AT T (g, t)’s in (effective) post-treatment
periods t ≥ g − δ. Although the limited anticipation condition in Assumption 3 implies that AT T (g, t) = 0
for all t < g − δ regardless of the group g, it is common practice to also estimate these pre-treatment
parameters and use them to assess the credibility of the underlying identifying assumptions. Note that
our DiD estimands (2.2) - (2.7) can be easily adjusted to include these by simply replacing the “long
differences” (Yt − Yg−δ−1 ) with the “short differences” (Yt − Yt−1 ) for all t < g − δ. All our results
                                           dr,nev
continues to hold when one augments AT [ T t≥(g−δ) to also include these estimates for the AT T (g, t)’s in
the pre-treatment periods t < g − δ.

4.2    Asymptotic Theory for Summary Parameters
Assume, for simplicity, that Assumption 3 holds with δ = 0. In this section, we discuss how one can
estimate and make inference about the summary measures of the casual effects discussed in Section 3.
More concisely, we consider parameters of the form of θ as defined in (3.1), which covers all of the
aggregated parameters discussed in Section 3.
    Given the discussion in Section 4.1, a natural way to estimate θ is to use the plug-in type estimators
                                                T
                                               XX                      nev
                                        θ̂ =             w
                                                         b (g, t) AT
                                                                  [  T dr (g, t; 0) ,
                                               g∈G t=2




   15
      The formal results in Abadie et al. (2017) focus on the cross section case and rely on additional functional form
restrictions that we do not impose in this paper. Fully extending the results of Abadie et al. (2017) to the semiparametric
panel data case is beyond the scope of our paper.
   16
      In such cases, provided that one is comfortable imposing additional functional form assumptions, one could use alter-
native procedures such as Conley and Taber (2011) and Ferman and Pinto (2019). Extending these proposals to our setup
is beyond the scope of this paper though.


                                                              25
