tively, for all g ∈ Gδ , t ∈ {2, . . . T − δ} such that t ≥ g − δ. Analogously, let Ψdr,nev
                                                                                     t≥(g−δ) denote the collection
    dr,nev
of ψg,t,δ  across all g ∈ Gδ , t ∈ {2, . . . T − δ} such that t ≥ g − δ. Consider the following claim:

                           For each g ∈ Gδ , t ∈ {2, . . . T − δ} such that t ≥ g − δ,
                           ∃πg∗ ∈ Θps : P pg (X; πg∗ ) = pg (X) = 1 or
                                                                   
                                                                                                            (4.5)
                                                                                  
                              ∗,nev                             ∗,nev
                           ∃βg,t,δ  ∈ Θreg : P mnev
                                                  g,t,δ    X; βg,t,δ    = m nev
                                                                            g,t,δ (X)  = 1.

Claim (4.5) says that either the working parametric model for the generalized propensity score is correctly
specified, or the working outcome regression model for the comparison group is correctly specified.
                                                                        dr,nev
   The next theorem establishes the joint limiting distribution of AT
                                                                   [  T t≥(g−δ) .

Theorem 2. Under Assumptions 1-4, 6-8, for each g and t such that g ∈ Gδ , t ∈ {2, . . . T − δ} and
t ≥ g − δ, provided that (4.5) is true,
                                                                  n
                  √          nev                            1 X dr,nev
                      n(AT
                        [  T dr (g, t; δ) − AT T (g, t)) = √   ψg,t,δ (Wi ; κ∗,nev
                                                                             g,t ) + op (1).
                                                             n
                                                                 i=1

Furthermore, as n → ∞,
                                  √          dr,nev                    d
                                      n(AT
                                        [  T t≥(g−δ) − AT Tt≥(g−δ) ) −
                                                                     → N (0, Σ)

where Σ = E[Ψdr,nev       dr,nev      0
             t≥(g−δ) (W )Ψt≥(g−δ) (W ) ].

   Theorem 2 provides the influence function for estimating the vector of group-time average treatment
effects, AT Tt≥(g−δ) , as well as its limiting distribution. Importantly, Theorem 2 emphasizes the DR
                  nev
property of AT
             [  T dr (g, t; δ): it recovers the AT T (g, t) provided that either the propensity score working
model or outcome regression working model for the “never treated” is correctly specified.
   In order to conduct inference, one can show that the sample analogue of Σ is a consistent estimator
for Σ, which leads directly to standard errors and pointwise confidence intervals. Instead of following this
route, we propose to use a simple multiplier bootstrap procedure to conduct asymptotically valid inference.
Our proposed bootstrap leverages the asymptotic linear representations derived in Theorem 2 and inherits
important advantages. First, it is easy to implement and very fast to compute. Each bootstrap iteration
simply amounts to “perturbing” the influence function by a random weight V , and it does not require
re-estimating the propensity score in each bootstrap draw. Second, in each bootstrap iteration, there are
always observations from each group. This can be a real problem with the traditional empirical bootstrap
where there may be no observations from a particular group in some particular bootstrap iteration.
Third, computation of simultaneously (in g and t) valid confidence bands is relatively straightforward.
This is particularly important since researchers are likely to use confidence bands to visualize estimation
uncertainty about AT T (g, t) . Unlike pointwise confidence bands, simultaneous confidences bands do not
suffer from multiple-testing problems and are guaranteed to cover all AT T (g, t)’s with a probability at
least 1 − α. Finally, we note that our proposed bootstrap procedure can be readily modified to account
for clustering, see Remark 10 below.
    To proceed, let Ψb dr,nev (W ) denote the sample-analogue of Ψdr,nev (W ), where population expec-
                       t≥(g−δ)                                    t≥(g−δ)
tations are replaced by their empirical analogue, and the true nuisance functions and their derivatives
are replaced by their estimators. Let {Vi }ni=1 be a sequence of iid random variables with zero mean,

                                                         23
