                  Figure 6: Effect of LLM exposure on job-level hiring




                                       0.10
                                       0.05
                         Coefficient

                                       0.00
                                       −0.05
                                       −0.10
                                       −0.15




                                               −10   0              10          20   30

                                                         Periods to treatment


Notes: This figure plots event study estimates of the effect of LLM exposure on occupation-
level hiring (log vacancies per occupation–month). Coefficients are estimated from Equation (5)
with occupation fixed effects and year-by-month fixed effects; standard errors are clustered at the
occupation level. The dependent variable is the log of the number of new vacancies posted in
occupation o in month t. Exposure is the occupation-level score from Eloundou et al. (2024). The
vertical line marks November 2022, when ChatGPT was publicly released. Shaded areas denote
95% confidence intervals.



salaries (both p < 0.001). Panel C shows that within-occupation salary dispersion
remains unchanged, suggesting uniform wage pressure across the distribution rather
than polarization between high- and low-earners within occupations.
    These occupation-level salary declines provide a sharp contrast with the slight
increase in firm-level compensation documented earlier. At the firm level, elimi-
nating junior positions mechanically raises average compensation by shifting work-
force composition toward senior roles. At the occupation level, however, we observe
market-wide wage depression for exposed roles as increased labor supply (from dis-
placed workers) meets reduced demand. As such, our results highlight the impor-
tance of considering both within-firm and within-occupation changes.




                                                             21
