                  Figure 1: Effect of LLM exposure on firm-level jobs




                                       0.005
                                       0.000
                         Coefficient

                                       −0.005
                                       −0.010




                                                −10   0              10          20   30

                                                          Periods to treatment


Notes: This figure plots event study estimates of the effect of LLM exposure on the total number of
employees in UK firms (log). Coefficients are estimated from Equation (3). All regressions include
firm fixed effects and industry-by-period fixed effects. Standard errors are clustered at the firm
level. Vertical line indicates November 2022, when ChatGPT was publicly released. Shaded areas
denote 95% confidence intervals.



show up in aggregate employment statistics. High and low LLM exposure exhibit
similar employment trajectories prior to November 2022, which provides support
for the validity of the parallel trends assumption. When averaged over the entire
post-treatment period (Table 3), a one standard deviation increase in LLM expo-
sure is associated with a 0.3 percent reduction in total employment, although the
aggregate effect is only marginally significant due to the delayed onset of impacts.
    We next examine how these aggregate effects vary across different types of work-
ers. Figure 2 decomposes the effects between high- and low-seniority employees.
Panel A shows junior positions decline immediately and statistically significantly,
while Panel B demonstrates that senior positions initially remain stable before de-
clining gradually, with the decrease only becoming significant after 20 months. Panel
C shows that the timing difference in the emergence of effects leads to a temporary
shift toward senior employees, although the compositional change attenuates over
time, with the seniority distribution gradually reverting toward pre-treatment levels
by the end of our observation period. All three panels show parallel pre-trends.


                                                              14
