2.1      Job Profile Data
The first dataset consists of all publicly available professional LinkedIn profiles be-
tween January 2021 through June 2025. The dataset includes approximately 75
million employment spells from 23 million unique individuals across 2.5 million UK-
based firms. Each observation includes the worker’s job title, employer, start and
end dates (if available), seniority level,3 and compensation.4 The data provide
near-real-time employment stocks, which enable us to track within-firm workforce
composition changes over time.
    From the panel of individual LinkedIn profiles, we construct a monthly firm-level
panel from January 2021 through June 2025. For each firm-month, we calculate
total employment as the count of unique individuals with active employment spells
at a certain company in that month, and log-transform this variable. This is our
main employment stock measure. We then separate total employment into junior
and senior employment stocks based on Revelio seniority classifications of jobs. We
also calculate average compensation as the log of the mean of reported salaries plus
bonuses in a firm. We only focus on firms that remained in business throughout the
sample period.
    To calculate firm-level exposure scores, we use the assessment framework devel-
oped by Eloundou et al. (2024). They evaluate 19,265 detailed work activities and
tasks from the O*NET 27.2 database to determine whether LLM assistance could
reduce task completion time by at least 50% while maintaining quality. We focus
on their ‘E1’ measure, which captures exposure to current LLMs, rather than LLMs
combined with additional software. We do so because it is the most appropriate
metric for identifying short-term labor market effects that do not require additional
software development or complex organizational changes. To obtain our firm-level
   3
      Revelio Labs determines seniority using an ensemble model that combines three components:
(i) current job characteristics including title, company, and industry; (ii) employment history
including tenure and previous position seniority; and (iii) individual age. These three scores are
averaged to create a continuous seniority metric, which is then mapped to seven ordinal levels
based on keyword benchmarks (e.g., “junior,” “senior,” “director”). The levels range from Entry
Level (e.g., interns, trainees) through Junior, Associate, Manager, and Director levels, to Executive
and Senior Executive levels (e.g., C-suite positions).
    4
      Revelio Labs estimates compensation using a predictive model trained on publicly available
visa application data, self-reported salaries, and job posting information. The model incorporates
position-specific variables (job title, seniority level, company, location), individual-specific factors
(tenure at company), and temporal controls (year of observation) to generate salary predictions
for positions where compensation data are not directly observed.


                                                   6
