                SKILL CONTENT OF TECHNICAL CHANGE                       1297

     Finally, the share of the labor force employed in occupations
intensive in nonroutine manual tasks showed a secular decline
across all decades. This decline was most rapid in the 1960s, and
slowed considerably in subsequent decades.
     Panel A of Table II provides the corresponding means of task
input by decade, both in aggregate and by gender. For both males
and females, there are pronounced shifts against routine cogni-
tive, routine manual, and nonroutine manual task inputs, and
pronounced shifts favoring nonroutine analytic and interactive
inputs. These shifts, however, are numerically larger for females.
Given the rapid entry of women into the labor force in recent
decades, it appears plausible that demand shifts for workplace
tasks would impact the stock of job tasks more rapidly for females
than males [Goldin 1990; Weinberg 2000; Blau, Ferber, and Wink-
ler 2002, Chapter 4]. To assess the importance of these gender
differences, we estimated all of our main results separately for
males and females. Because we found quite similar results for
both genders, we focus below on the pooled gender samples.
     To complete the picture provided by the decadal means,
Figure II depicts smoothed changes in the density of the two
routine and two nonroutine cognitive task measures between
1960 and subsequent decades. Three series are plotted for each
task measure. Two depict extensive margin task shifts at approxi-
mately twenty-year intervals. These are measured using the 1977
DOT task measures paired to the 1960, 1980, and 1998 employ-
ment data. The third series adds intensive margin task shifts by
pairing the 1991 DOT task measures with the 1998 employment
data. By construction, task input is uniformly distributed across
all percentiles in 1960. Hence, the height of each line in the Žgure
represents the difference in the share of overall employment in
1980 or 1998 at each centile of 1960 task input.15 To conserve
space, we do not provide a plot of the nonroutine manual mea-
sure, since it is not the subject of subsequent analysis.
     As shown in panels A and B of the Žgure, the distribution of
nonroutine analytic and nonroutine interactive task input shifted
markedly rightward after 1960. In particular, there was substan-
tial growth in the share of employment requiring nonroutine task
input above the 1960 median and a corresponding decline below


   15. We apply an Epanechnikov kernel with bandwidth h 5 0.90sn 2 1 /5 ,
where n is the number of observations and s is the standard deviation. For our
samples, this yields bandwidths between 5 and 7 centiles.
