  THE SKILL CONTENT OF RECENT TECHNOLOGICAL
       CHANGE: AN EMPIRICAL EXPLORATION*

                                 DAVID H. AUTOR
                                   FRANK LEVY
                              R ICHARD J. MURNANE

     We apply an understanding of what computers do to study how computerization
alters job skill demands. We argue that computer capital (1) substitutes for workers
in performing cognitive and manual tasks that can be accomplished by following
explicit rules; and (2) complements workers in performing nonroutine problem-
solving and complex communications tasks. Provided that these tasks are imperfect
substitutes, our model implies measurable changes in the composition of job tasks,
which we explore using representative data on task input for 1960 to 1998. We Žnd
that within industries, occupations, and education groups, computerization is asso-
ciated with reduced labor input of routine manual and routine cognitive tasks and
increased labor input of nonroutine cognitive tasks. Translating task shifts into
education demand, the model can explain 60 percent of the estimated relative de-
mand shift favoring college labor during 1970 to 1998. Task changes within nomi-
nally identical occupations account for almost half of this impact.


                                   INTRODUCTION
     A wealth of quantitative and case-study evidence documents
a striking correlation between the adoption of computer-based
technologies and the increased use of college-educated labor
within detailed industries, within Žrms, and across plants within
industries.1 This robust correlation is frequently interpreted as
evidence of skill-biased technical change. Yet, as critics point out,
this interpretation merely labels the correlation without explain-


    * We thank the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, the Russell Sage Foundation, and
the MIT-Ford Research Collaboration for Žnancial support and Kokkeong Puah,
Detelina Vasileva, and especially Melissa S. Kearny for research assistance. We
are indebted to Daron Acemoglu, Joshua Angrist, Lex Borghans, Nicole Fortin,
Edward Glaeser, Lawrence Katz, Kevin Lang, Thomas Lemieux, Sendhil Mullain-
athan, Richard Nelson, Kathryn Shaw, Marika Tatsutani, Bas ter Weel, three
anonymous referees, and numerous seminar participants for excellent sugges-
tions. We thank Randy Davis of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Arti-
Žcial Intelligence Laboratory and Peter Szolovits of the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology Laboratory for Computer Science for clarifying issues in artiŽcial
intelligence, and Michael Handel for providing key data sources and expert advice
on use of the Dictionary of Occupational Titles.
    1. Berman, Bound, and Griliches [1994], Autor, Katz, and Krueger [1998],
Machin and Van Reenen [1998], Berman, Bound, and Machin [1998, 2000], and Gera,
Gu, and Lin [2001] present evidence on industry level demand shifts from the United
States, OECD, Canada, and other developed and developing countries. Levy and
Murnane [1996], Doms, Dunne, and Troske [1997], and Bresnahan, Brynjolfsson, and
Hitt [2002] provide evidence on Žrm and plant level shifts. Katz and Autor [1999]
summarize this literature. Card and DiNardo [2002] offer a critique.

© 2003 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.
The Quarterly Journal of Economics, November 2003


                                         1279
