severe problem, both in the traditional gravity equation introduced by Tinbergen (1962),
and in a gravity equation that takes into account multilateral resistance terms or fixed
eﬀects, as suggested by Anderson and van Wincoop (2003). We then compare the esti-
mates obtained with the proposed PML estimator with those generated by OLS in the
log-linear specification, using both the traditional and the fixed-eﬀects gravity equations.
  Our estimation method paints a very diﬀerent picture of the determinants of inter-
national trade. In the traditional gravity equation, the coeﬃcients on GDP are not, as
generally estimated, close to one. Instead, they are significantly smaller, which might
help reconcile the gravity equation with the observation that the trade-to-GDP ratio de-
creases with total GDP (or, in other words, that smaller countries tend to be more open
to international trade). In addition, OLS greatly exaggerates the roles of colonial ties,
geographical proximity, and bilateral trade agreements.
  Using the Anderson-van Wincoop (2003) gravity equation, we find that OLS yields sig-
nificantly larger eﬀects for geographical distance. The estimated elasticity obtained from
the log-linearized equation is almost twice as large as that predicted by PML. OLS also
predicts a large role for common colonial ties, implying that sharing a common colonial
history practically doubles bilateral trade. In contrast, the proposed PML estimator leads
to a statistically and economically insignificant eﬀect.
  The general message is that, even controlling for fixed eﬀects, the presence of het-
eroskedasticity can generate strikingly diﬀerent estimates when the gravity equation is
log-linearized, rather than estimated in levels. In other words, Jensen’s inequality is
quantitatively and qualitatively important in the estimation of gravity equations. This
suggests that inferences drawn on log-linearized regressions can produce misleading con-
clusions.
  Despite the focus on the gravity equation, our criticism to the conventional practice
and the solution we propose extends to a broad range of economic applications where
the equations under study are log-linearized, or, more generally, transformed by a non-
linear function. A short list of examples includes the estimation of Mincerian equations




                                             3
