sample, and PPML. Note that, because this exercise uses cross sectional data, we can
only identify bilateral variables.28
  As with the standard specification of the gravity equation, we find that using the
Anderson-van Wincoop (2003) specification, estimates obtained with the Poisson method
vary little when only the positive-trade subsample is used. Moreover, we find again strong
evidence that the errors of the log-linear model estimated using the sample with positive-
trade are heteroskedastic. With this specification, the two-degrees-of-freedom special case
of White’s test for heteroskedasticity leads to a test statistic of 469.2 and a p-value of
zero.
  Since we are now conditioning on a much larger set of controls, it is not surprising to
find that most coeﬃcients are sensitive to the introduction of fixed eﬀects. For example,
in the Poisson method, although the distance elasticity remains about the same and the
coeﬃcient on common colonial ties is still insignificant, the eﬀect on common language
is now smaller and the coeﬃcient on free-trade agreements is larger. The results of the
other estimations methods are generally much more sensitive to the inclusion of the fixed
eﬀects.
  Comparing the results of PPML and OLS for the positive-trade subsample, the follow-
ing observations are in order. The distance elasticity is substantially larger under OLS
(−1.35 versus −0.75). Sharing a border has a positive eﬀect on trade under Poisson, but
no significant eﬀect under OLS. Sharing a common language has similar eﬀects under
both techniques. Common colonial ties have strong eﬀects under OLS (with an aver-
age enhancement eﬀect of 100 percent), whereas Poisson predicts no significant eﬀect.
Finally, both techniques produce reasonably similar estimates for the coeﬃcient on the
trade-agreement dummy, implying a trade-enhancement eﬀect of the order of 40 percent.
  28
       Since income elasticities cannot be separately identified, we use trade as the dependent variable of
the gravity equation and not the ratio of trade to the product of GDP’s, as in Anderson-van Wincoop
(2003).




                                                     29
