  We argue that the biases are present both in the traditional specification of the gravity
equation and in the Anderson-van Wincoop (2003) specification, which includes country-
specific fixed eﬀects.
  To address the various estimation problems, we propose a simple Poisson pseudo-
maximum likelihood method and assess its performance using Monte Carlo simulations.
We find that in the presence of heteroskedasticity the standard methods can severely bias
the estimated coeﬃcients, casting doubt on previous empirical findings. Our method,
instead, is robust to diﬀerent patterns of heteroskedasticity and, in addition, provides a
natural way to deal with zeroes in trade data.
  We use our method to re-estimate the gravity equation and document significant dif-
ferences from the results obtained using the log-linear method. For example, income elas-
ticities in the traditional gravity equation are systematically smaller than those obtained
with log-linearized OLS regressions. In addition, in both the traditional and Anderson-van
Wincoop specifications of the gravity equation, OLS estimation exaggerates the role of ge-
ographical proximity and colonial ties. OLS estimates of the impact of preferential-trade
agreements are very sensitive to the inclusion of fixed eﬀects, whereas Poisson generates
more stable results. RESET tests systematically favour the Poisson PML technique. The
results suggest that heteroskedasticity (rather than truncation of the data) is responsible
for the main diﬀerences.
  Log-linearized equations estimated by OLS are of course used in many other areas
of empirical economics and econometrics. Our Monte Carlo simulations and the regres-
sion outcomes indicate that in the presence of heteroskedasticity this practice can lead
to significant biases. These results suggest that, at least when there is evidence of het-
eroskedasticity, the Poisson pseudo-maximum likelihood estimator should be used as a
substitute for the standard log-linear model.




                                            32
