estimator based on the Poisson distribution is optimal in this situation. Case 3 is the
special case in which OLS estimation of the log-linear model is consistent for the slope
parameters of (14). Moreover, in this case the log-linear model not only corrects the
heteroskedasticity in the data, but, because η i is log-normal, it is also the maximum
likelihood estimator. The GPML is the optimal PML estimator in this case, but it should
be outperformed by the true maximum likelihood estimator. Finally, Case 4 is the only
one in which the conditional variance does not depend exclusively on the mean. The
variance is a quadratic function of the mean, as in Case 3, but it is not proportional to
the square of the mean.
  We carried out two sets of experiments. The first set was aimed at studying the per-
formance of the estimators of the multiplicative and the log-linear models under diﬀerent
patterns of heteroskedasticity. In order to study the eﬀect of the truncation on the per-
formance of the OLS, and given that this data generating mechanism does not produce
observations with yi = 0, the log-linear model was also estimated using only the obser-
vations for which yi > 0.5, OLS (y > 0.5). This reduces the sample size by about 25%
to 35%, depending on the pattern of heteroskedasticity. The estimation of the thresh-
old Tobit was also performed using this dependent variable. Notice that, although the
dependent variable has to cross a threshold to be observable, the truncation mechanism
used here is not equal to the one assumed by Eaton and Tamura (1994). Therefore, in
all these experiments the ET-Tobit will be slightly misspecified and the results presented
here should be viewed as a check of its robustness to this problem.
  The second set of experiments studied the estimators’ performance in the presence of
rounding errors in the dependent variable. For that purpose, a new random variable was
generated rounding to the nearest integer the values of yi obtained in the first set of sim-
ulations. This procedure mimics the rounding errors in oﬃcial statistics and generates
a large number of zeros, a typical feature of trade data. Because the model considered
here generates a large proportion of observations close to zero, rounding down is much
more frequent than rounding up. As the probability of rounding up or down depends on
the covariates, this procedure will necessarily bias the estimates, as discussed before. The


                                            18
