representation of the constant-elasticity model is only useful as a device to estimate the
parameters of interest under very specific conditions on the error term.
  When η i is statistically independent of xi , the conditional variance of yi (and εi ) is
proportional to exp (2xi β). Although economic theory generally does not provide any in-
formation on the variance of εi , we can infer some of its properties from the characteristics
of the data. Because yi is non-negative, when E [yi |x] approaches zero, the probability
of yi being positive must also approach zero. This implies that V [yi |x], the conditional
variance of yi , tends to vanish as E [yi |x] passes to zero.8 On the other hand, when the
expected value y is far away from its lower bound, it is possible to observe large devia-
tions from the conditional mean in either direction, leading to greater dispersion. Thus,
in practice, εi will generally be heteroskedastic and its variance will depend on exp (xi β),
but there is no reason to assume that V [yi |x] is proportional to exp (2xi β). Therefore, in
general, regressing ln (yi ) on xi by OLS will lead to inconsistent estimates of β.
  It may be surprising that the pattern of heteroskedasticity and, indeed, the form of
all higher-order moments of the conditional distribution of the error term can aﬀect the
consistency of an estimator, rather than just its eﬃciency. The reason is that the non-
linear transformation of the dependent variable in equation (7) changes the properties of
the error term in a non-trivial way since the conditional expectation of ln (η i ) depends on
the shape of the conditional distribution of η i . Hence, unless very strong restrictions are
imposed on the form of this distribution, it is not possible to recover information about the
conditional expectation of yi from the conditional mean of ln (yi ) simply because ln (η i ) is
correlated with the regressors. Nevertheless, estimating (7) by OLS will produce consistent
estimates of the parameters of E [ln (yi )| x] as long as E [ln (yi )| x] is a linear function of
   8
       In the case of trade data, when E [yi |x] is close to its lower bound (i.e., for pairs of small and distant
countries), it is unlikely that large values of trade are observed since they cannot be oﬀset by equally
large deviations in the opposite direction simply because trade cannot be negative. Therefore, for these
observations, dispersion around the mean tends to be small.




                                                        10
