  In our empirical analysis we provide estimates for both the traditional and the Anderson-
van Wincoop gravity equations using alternative estimation methods. We show that, in
practice, heteroskedasticity is quantitatively and qualitatively important in the gravity
equation, even when controlling for fixed eﬀects. Hence, we recommend to estimate the
augmented gravity equation in levels, using the proposed PML estimator, which also
adequately deals with the zero observations.



3. Constant-Elasticity Models
Despite their immense popularity, there are still important econometric flaws in empirical
studies involving gravity equations. These flaws are not exclusive of this literature, and
extend to many areas where constant-elasticity models are used. This section examines
how the deterministic multiplicative models suggested by economic theory can be used in
empirical studies.
  In their non-stochastic form, the relationship between the multiplicative constant-
elasticity model and its log-linear additive formulation is trivial. The problem, of course,
is that economic relations do not hold with the accuracy of the physical laws. All that
can be expected is that they hold on average. Indeed, here we interpret economic models
like the gravity equation as the expected value of the variable of interest, y ≥ 0, for
a given value of the explanatory variables, x (see Goldberger, 1991, p. 5). That is, if
economic theory suggests that y and x are linked by a constant-elasticity model of the
form yi = exp (xi β), the function exp (xi β) is interpreted as the conditional expectation
of yi given x, denoted E [yi |x].5 For example, using the notation in the previous sec-
   5
       Notice that if exp (xi β) is interpreted as describing the conditional median of yi (or other conditional
quantile) rather than the conditional expectation, estimates of the elasticities of interest can be obtained
estimating the log-linear model using the appropriate quantile regression estimator (Koenker and Bassett,
1978). However, interpreting exp (xi β) as a conditional median is problematic when yi has a large mass
of zero observations, like in trade data. Indeed, in this case the conditional median of yi will be a
discontinuous function of the regressors, which is generally not compatible with the standard economic
theory.



                                                        8
