Abstract
Although economists have long been aware of Jensen's inequality, many econometric applications
have neglected an important implication of it: the standard practice of interpreting the parameters of
log-linearized models estimated by ordinary least squares as elasticities can be highly misleading in
the presence of heteroskedasticity. This paper explains why this problem arises and proposes an
appropriate estimator. Our criticism to conventional practices and the solution we propose extends to
a broad range of economic applications where the equation under study is log-linearized. We develop
the argument using one particular illustration, the gravity equation for trade, and apply the proposed
technique to provide new estimates of this equation. We find significant differences between
estimates obtained with the proposed estimator and those obtained with the traditional method. These
discrepancies persist even when the gravity equation takes into account multilateral resistance terms
or fixed effects

Keywords: Elasticities, Gravity equation, Heteroskedasticity, Jensen's inequality, Poisson regression,
Preferential-trade agreements
JEL Classifications: C13, C21, F10, F11, F12, F15
Data: Feenstra, R.C., R.E. Lipsey and H.P. Bowen (1997), "World Trade Flows, 1970-1992, with
Production and Tariff Data", NBER Working Paper No. 5910.


This paper was produced as part of the Centre’s Macro Programme. The Centre for Economic
Performance is financed by the Economic and Social Research Council.


Acknowledgements
The authors are grateful to two anonymous referees for their constructive comments and suggestions.
We also thank Francesco Caselli, Juan Carlos Hallak, Daniel Mota, Paulo Parente, Manuela Simarro
and Kim Underhill for helpful advice on previous versions of this paper. The usual disclaimer applies.
Jiaying Huang provided excellent research assistance. Santos Silva gratefully acknowledges the
partial financial support from Fundação para a Ciência e Tecnologia, program POCTI, partially
funded by FEDER. A previous version of this paper circulated as “Gravity-Defying Trade.”
         Joao Santos Silva is a Professor in the Maths Department at ISEG/Universidade Tecnica de
Lisboa R. do Quelhas 6, 1200-781 Lisboa, Portugal http://www.iseg.utl.pt/~jmcss/
Email: jmcss@iseg.utl.pt
         Silvana Tenreyro is an Economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and lecturer at the
London School of Economics. Email: s.tenreyro@lse.ac.uk


Published by
Centre for Economic Performance
London School of Economics and Political Science
Houghton Street
London WC2A 2AE

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or
transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior permission in writing of the publisher nor
be issued to the public or circulated in any form other than that in which it is published.

Requests for permission to reproduce any article or part of the Working Paper should be sent to the
editor at the above address.

© J. Santos Silva and S. Tenreyro, submitted 2005

ISBN 0 7530 1882 9
