states that the trade flow from country i to country j, denoted by Tij , is proportional to
the product of the two countries’ GDPs, denoted by Yi and Yj , and inversely proportional
to their distance, Dij , broadly construed to include all factors that might create trade
resistance. That is,
                                          Tij = α0 Yiα1 Yjα2 Dijα3 ,                                       (1)

where α0 , α1 , α2 , and α3 are parameters to be estimated.
  The analogy between trade and the physical force of gravity, however, clashes with the
observation that there is no set of parameters for which equation (1) will hold exactly for
an arbitrary set of observations. To account for deviations from the theory, stochastic
versions of the equation are used in empirical studies. Typically, the stochastic version of
the gravity equation has the form

                                         Tij = α0 Yiα1 Yjα2 Dijα3 η ij ,                                   (2)

where η ij is an error term with E(η ij |Yi , Yj , Dij ) = 1, assumed to be statistically indepen-
dent of the regressors, leading to

                                  E(Tij |Yi , Yj , Dij ) = α0 Yiα1 Yjα2 Dij
                                                                         α3
                                                                            .

  There is a long tradition in the trade literature of log-linearizing (2) and estimating the
parameters of interest by least squares using the equation
                                                                                    ¡ ¢
                ln (Tij ) = ln (α0 ) + α1 ln (Yi ) + α2 ln (Yj ) + α3 ln (Dij ) + ln η ij .                (3)

The validity of this procedure depends critically on the assumption that η ij , and therefore
  ¡ ¢
ln η ij , are statistically independent of the regressors. To see why this is so, notice that
the expected value of the logarithm of a random variable depends both on its mean and
on the higher-order moments of the distribution. Hence, for example, if the variance of
                                                                                          ¡ ¢
the error term η ij in equation (2) depends on Yi , Yj , or Dij , the expected value of ln η ij
will also depend on the regressors, violating the condition for consistency of OLS.2
   2
       As an illustration, consider the case in which ηij follows a log-normal distribution, with
E(ηij |Yi , Yj , Dij ) = 1 and variance σ 2ij = f (Yi , Yj , Dij ). The error term in the log-linearized repre-
                                                                 £ ¡ ¢            ¤
sentation will then follow a normal distribution, with E ln ηij |Yi , Yj , Dij = − 12 ln(1 + σ2ij ), which is
also a function of the covariates.

                                                       5
