  In the cases studied in Section 5 we find overwhelming evidence that the error terms
in the usual log-linear specification of the gravity equation are heteroskedastic, which
                                  ¡ ¢
violates the assumption that ln η ij is statistically independent of the regressors and
suggests that this estimation method leads to inconsistent estimates of the elasticities of
interest.
  A related problem with the analogy between Newtonian gravity and trade is that grav-
itational force can be very small, but never zero, whereas trade between several pairs of
countries is literally zero. In many cases, these zeros occur simply because some pairs
of countries did not trade in a given period. For example, it would not be surprising
to find that Tajikistan and Togo did not trade in a certain year.3 These zero observa-
tions pose no problem at all for the estimation of gravity equations in their multiplicative
form. In contrast, the existence of observations for which the dependent variable is zero
creates an additional problem for the use of the log-linear form of the gravity equation.
Several methods have been developed to deal with this problem (see Frankel, 1997, for a
description of the various procedures). The approach followed by the large majority of
empirical studies is simply to drop the pairs with zero trade from the dataset and estimate
the log-linear form by OLS. Rather than throwing away the observations with Tij = 0,
some authors estimate the model using Tij + 1 as the dependent variable or use a Tobit
estimator. However, these procedures will generally lead to inconsistent estimators of β.
The severity of these inconsistencies will depend on the particular characteristics of the
sample and model used, but there is no reason to believe that they will be negligible.
  Zeroes may also be the result of rounding errors.4 If trade is measured in thousands of
dollars, it is possible that for pairs of countries for which bilateral trade did not reach a
minimum value, say $500, the value of trade is registered as zero. If these rounded-down
   3
       The absence of trade between small and distant countries might be explained, among other factors,
by large variable costs (e.g., bricks are too costly to transport) or large fixed costs (e.g., information
on foreign markets). At the aggregate level, these costs can be best proxied by the various measures of
distance and size entering the gravity equation.
   4
     Trade data can suﬀer from many other forms of errors, as described in Feenstra, Lipsey, and Bowen
(1997).



                                                    6
