both) of the countries in the pair is part of a preferential-trade agreement and, thus, it
captures the extent of trade between members and non-members of a preferential-trade
agreement. The sum of the coeﬃcients on the trade agreement and the openness dummies
gives the net creation eﬀect of trade agreements. OLS suggests that there is trade destruc-
tion coming from trade agreements. Still, the net creation eﬀect is around 40 percent. In
contrast, Poisson regressions provide no significant evidence of trade diversion, although
the point estimates are of the same order of magnitude under both methods.
  Hence, even when accounting for trade diversion eﬀects, on average, the Poisson method
estimates a smaller eﬀect of preferential-trade agreements on trade, approximately half
of that indicated by OLS. The contrast in estimates suggests that the biases generated
by standard regressions can be substantial, leading to misleading inferences and, perhaps,
erroneous policy decisions.27
  We now turn briefly to the results of the other estimation methods. OLS on ln(1 + Tij )
and Tobit give very close estimates for most coeﬃcients. Like OLS, they yield large
estimates for the elasticity of bilateral trade with respect to distance. However, unlike
OLS, they produce insignificant coeﬃcients for the contiguity dummy. They both generate
extremely large and statistically significant coeﬃcients for the trade-agreement dummy.
The first method predicts that trade between two countries that signed a trade agreement
is on average 266 percent larger than that between countries without an agreement. The
second predicts that trade between countries in free-trade agreements is on average 100
percent larger. NLS tends to generate somewhat diﬀerent estimates. The elasticity of
trade with respect to the exporter’s GDP is significantly smaller than OLS, but the
corresponding elasticity with respect to importer’s GDP is significantly larger than OLS.
The estimated distance elasticity is smaller than OLS and bigger than Poisson. As the
other methods, NLS predicts a significant and large eﬀect for free-trade agreements.
  27
       It is interesting to remark that there is a pattern in the direction of the bias generated by OLS.
The bias tends to be positive for the coeﬃcients on variables that relate to larger volumes of trade and,
presumably, to larger variance. It tends to be negative for variables that deter trade and, possibly, reduce
the variance.



                                                    26
