The corresponding p-values are reported at the bottom of table 4. In the OLS regression,
the test rejects the hypothesis that the coeﬃcient on the test variable is zero. This means
that the model estimated using the logarithmic specification is inappropriate. A similar
result is found for the OLS estimated using ln(1 + Tij ) as the dependent variable and
NLS. In contrast, the models estimated using the Poisson regressions pass the RESET
test, i.e., the RESET test provides no evidence of misspecification of the gravity equations
estimated using the PPML. With this particular specification, the model estimated using
Tobit also passes the test for the traditional gravity equation.
  Finally, we also check whether the particular pattern of heteroskedasticity assumed
by the models is appropriate. As explained in section 3.2, the adequacy of the log-linear
model was checked using the Park-type test, whereas the hypothesis V [yi |x] ∝ µ (xi β) was
                                                                            √
tested by evaluating the significance of the coeﬃcient on the term ln (y̌i ) y̌i in the Gauss-
Newton regression indicated in expression (13). The p-values of the tests are reported in
Table 4. Again, the log-linear specification is unequivocally rejected. On the other hand,
                                                                √
these results indicate that the estimated coeﬃcient on ln (y̌i ) y̌i is insignificantly diﬀerent
from zero at the usual 5 percent level. This implies that the Poisson PML assumption,
V [yi |x] = λ0 E [yi |x] cannot be rejected at this significance level.

                           Table 4: Results of the tests for
                        type of heteroskedasticity (p-values).
                     Test (Null hypothesis)    Trade > 0 Full sample
                    GNR (V [yi |x] ∝ µ (xi β))   0.144      0.115
                    Park (OLS is valid)          0.000      0.000

5.2.2 The Anderson-van Wincoop Gravity Equation

Table 5 presents the estimated coeﬃcients for the Anderson-van Wincoop (2003) gravity
equation, which controls more properly for multilateral resistance terms by introducing
exporter and importer specific eﬀects.
  As before, the columns show, respectively, the estimated coeﬃcients obtained using
OLS on the log of trade, OLS on ln(1 + Tij ), Tobit, NLS, PPML on the positive-trade




                                               28
