J. R. Statist. Soc. B (1995)
57, No. I, pp, 289-300



       Controlling the False Discovery Rate: a Practical and Powerful
                        Approach to Multiple Testing
                          By YOAV BENJAMINIt and YOSEF HOCHBERG
                                         Tel A viv University, Israel

                               [Received January 1993. Revised March 1994]




                                                                                                                Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/jrsssb/article/57/1/289/7035855 by guest on 28 July 2026
                                                SUMMARY
      The common approach to the multiplicity problem calls for controlling the familywise
      error rate (FWER). This approach, though, has faults, and we point out a few. A different
      approach to problems of multiple significance testing is presented. It calls for controlling
      the expected proportion of falsely rejected hypotheses-the false discovery rate. This error
      rate is equivalent to the FWER when all hypotheses are true but is smaller otherwise. There-
      fore, in problems where the control of the false discovery rate rather than that of the
      FWER is desired, there is potential for a gain in power. A simple sequential Bonferroni-
      type procedure is proved to control the false discovery rate for independent test statistics,
      and a simulation study shows that the gain in power is substantial. The use of the new
      procedure and the appropriateness of the criterion are illustrated with examples.
Keywords: BONFERRONI-TYPE PROCEDURES; FAMILYWISE ERROR RATE; MULTIPLE·
          COMPARISON PROCEDURES; p-VALUES


                                        1.   INTRODUCTION
When pursuing multiple inferences, researchers tend to select the (statistically) signif-
icant ones for emphasis, discussion and support of conclusions. An unguarded use
of single-inference procedures results in a greatly increased false positive (signif-
icance) rate. To control this multiplicity (selection) effect, classical multiple-
comparison procedures (MCPs) aim to control the probability of committing any
type I error in families of comparisons under simultaneous consideration. The
control of this familywise error rate (FWER) is usually required in a strong sense,
i.e, under all configurations of the true and false hypotheses tested (see for example
Hochberg and Tamhane (1987».
   Even though MCPs have been in use since the early 1950s, and in spite of the
advocacy for their use (e.g. being mandatory for some journals, as well as in some
institutions such as the Food and Drug Administration of the USA), researchers
have not yet widely adopted these procedures. In medical research, for example,
Godfrey (1985), Pocock et al. (1987) and Smith et al. (1987) examined samples of
reports of comparative studies from major medical journals. They found that
researchers overlook various kinds of multiplicity, and as a result reporting tends
to exaggerate treatment differences (Pocock et al., 1987).
   Some of the difficulties with classical MCPs which cause their underutilization
in applied research are as follows.

  tAddress for correspondence: Department of Statistics, School of Mathematical Sciences, Sackler Faculty for
Exact Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel.
E-mail: benja@math.tav.ac.il

© 1995 Royal Statistical Society                                                     0035-9246/95/57289
