298                          BENJAMINI AND HOCHBERG                            [No.1,
  (f) The advantage in some situations is extremely large. For example, testing
      32 hypotheses, equally spread in four clusters from 1.25 to 5 so that none
      is true, the power of the Bonferroni method is 0.42. The procedure suggested
      increases the power to 0.65; testing as few as four hypotheses, half of which
      are true, the values are 0.62 and 0.70 respectively.
  (g) It is known that Hochberg's method offers a more powerful alternative to
      the traditional Bonferroni method. Nevertheless, it is important to note that
      the gain in power due to the control of the FDR rather than the FWER is
      much larger than the gain of the FWER controlling method over the Bonfer-
      roni method.




                                                                                         Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/jrsssb/article/57/1/289/7035855 by guest on 28 July 2026
   Casting these results into a different form, it may be seen that in some configura-
tions up to half the non-null hypotheses which were not rejected by the Bonferroni
procedure are now rejected by the FDR controlling method, when at least half of
the tested hypotheses are non-null. Even when only 250/0 of the hypotheses are non-
null, the gain in power is such that about a quarter of the equally spaced hypotheses
which were not rejected before are now rejected.
   Fig. 1 allows us also to answer a question raised by a referee, about how
E(V/mo) is controlled by the FDR controlling method. This error rate is 0 when
mo = 0 and otherwise can be approximated by the average level aave at which the
individual hypotheses are tested. Obviously aave is always less than q*, but for m.,
away from m more can be said: let Rave be the average number of rejections and
lave be the average power (displayed in Fig. 1). It follows that ma ave ~ Raveq* ==
(moaave + ml/ave)q*, so

                                  .. *       ml
                          aave ~ Javeq m, + mo(1 _ q*) .

Therefore E(V/mo) looks as in Fig. 1 but is smaller by a factor of q* or even less.
For m = mo the error is much closer to q*/mo than to q*: 0.0132, 0.0063, 0.0033,
0.0017 and 0.0009 for the four, eight, 16, 32 and 64 hypotheses tested respectively.


                                 5.   CONCLUSION
   The approach to multiple significance testing in this paper is philosophically
different from the classical approaches. The classical approach requires the control
of the FWER in the strong sense, a conservative type I error rate control against
any configuration of the hypotheses tested. The new approach calls for the control
of the FDR instead, and thereby also the control of the FWER in the weak sense.
In many applications this is the desirable control against errors originating from
multiplicity.
   Within the framework suggested, other procedures may be developed, including
procedures which utilize the structure of specific problems such as pairwise com-
parisons in analysis of variance. A different direction, which we have already
pursued, is to develop an adaptive method which incorporates the ideas of Hochberg
and Benjamini (1990). In this paper, however, we have only focused on presenting
and motivating the new approach that calls for controlling the FDR, and we have
demonstrated that it can be developed into a simple and powerful procedure. Thus
the cost paid for the control of multiplicity need not be large. This might contribute
