296                          BENJAMINI AND HOCHBERG                           [No.1,
                       4.   SOME POWER COMPARISONS
   We compare the power of our FDR controlling procedure with some other
Bonferroni-type procedures which control the FWER. Under the overall null
hypothesis the proposed method controls the FWER at level q*. We take the FWER
controlling methods and the FDR controlling method to control the FWER weakly
at the same level, using q* = a, and compare the power of the methods from the
two different approaches under different configurations. It is clear from the
comment in Section 2.1, property (b), that a method which controls the FDR is
generally more powerful than its counterpart which controls the FWER (in the




                                                                                        Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/jrsssb/article/57/1/289/7035855 by guest on 28 July 2026
strong sense). The magnitude of the difference remains to be investigated.

                                 4.1. The Setting
   We studied this question by using a large simulation study, where the family of
hypotheses is the expectations of m independent normally distributed random
variables being equal to O. Each individual hypothesis is tested by a z-test, and the
test statistics are independent. We use q* = a = 0.05. The configurations of the
hypotheses involve m = 4, 8, 16, 32 and 64 hypotheses, and the number of truly
null hypotheses being 3m/4, ml2, m/4 and O. The non-zero expectations were
divided into four groups and placed at L/4, LI2, 3L/4 and L in the following three
ways:
  (a) linearly decreasing (D) number of hypotheses away from 0 in each group;
  (b) equal (E) number of hypotheses in each group;
  (c) linearly increasing (I) number of hypotheses away from 0 in each group.
These expectations were fixed (per configuration) throughout the experiment.
   The variance of all variables was set to 1, and L was chosen at two levels- 5 and
to-thereby varying the signal-to-noise ratio.
   Each simulation involved 20000 repetitions. The estimated standard errors of the
power are about 0.0008-0.0016. As the same normal deviates were used in a single
repetition across all configurations with the same number of hypotheses, and the
alternatives in different configurations were monotonically related, a positive
correlation was induced. This correlation reduces the variance of a comparison
between two methods or two configurations to below twice the variance of a single
method.

                                  4.2. Results
  Fig. 1 presents the estimates of the average power (the proportion of the false
hypotheses which are correctly rejected) for three methods. The two FWER
controlling methods, the Bonferroni (dotted curves) and Hochberg's (1988) method
(broken curves), are compared with the new FDR controlling procedure (full
curves). The following observations can be made from the results displayed.
  (a) The power of all the methods decreases when the number of hypotheses
      tested increases - this is the cost of multiplicity control.
  (b) The power is smallest for the D-configuration, where the non-null hypoth-
      eses are closer to the null, and is largest for I (which is obvious but
      mentioned for completeness).
