290                             BENJAMINI AND HOCHBERG                          [No.1,
  (a) Much of the methodology of FWER controlling MCPs concerns compari-
      sons of multiple treatments and families whose test statistics are multivariate
      normal (or t). In practice, many of the problems encountered are not of the
      multiple-treatments type, and test statistics are not multivariate normal. In
      fact, families are often combined with statistics of different types.
  (b) Classical procedures that control the FWER in the strong sense, at levels
      conventional in single-comparison problems, tend to have substantially less
      power than the per comparison procedure of the same levels.
  (c) Often the control of the FWER is not quite needed. The control of the
      FWER is important when a conclusion from the various individual infer-




                                                                                          Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/jrsssb/article/57/1/289/7035855 by guest on 28 July 2026
      ences is likely to be erroneous when at least one of them is. This may be
      the case, for example, when several new treatments are competing against
      a standard, and a single treatment is chosen from the set of treatments which
      are declared significantly better than the standard. However, a treatment
      group and a control group are often compared by testing various aspects
      of the effect (different end points in clinical trials terminology). The overall
      conclusion that the treatment is superior need not be erroneous even if some
      of the null hypotheses are falsely rejected.
   The first difficulty has been partially addressed by the recent line of research
advancing Bonferroni-type procedures, which use the observed individual p-values,
while remaining faithful to FWER control: Simes (1986), Hommel (1988), Hochberg
(1988) and Rom (1990). The other two difficulties still present a serious problem.
This is probably why a per comparison error rate (PCER) approach, which amounts
to ignoring the multiplicity problem altogether, is still recommended by some (e.g.
Saville (1990».
   In this work we suggest a new point of view on the problem of multiplicity. In
many multiplicity problems the number of erroneous rejections should be taken into
account and not only the question whether any error was made. Yet, at the same
time, the seriousness of the loss incurred by erroneous rejections is inversely related
to the number of hypotheses rejected. From this point of view, a desirable error
rate to control may be the expected proportion of errors among the rejected
hypotheses, which we term the false discovery rate (FDR). This criterion integrates
Spjetvoll's (1972) concern about the number of errors committed in multiple-
comparison problems, with Soric's (1989) concern about the probability of a false
rejection given a rejection. We use the term FDR after Soric (1989), who identified
a rejected hypothesis with a 'statistical discovery'.
   After some preliminaries, we present in Section 2.1 a formal definition of the
FDR. Two immediate but important consequences of controlling this error rate are
given: it implies weak control of FWER and it admits more powerful procedures.
In Section 2.2 we present some examples where the control of the FDR is desirable.
In Section 3 we present a simple Bonferroni-type FDR controlling procedure and
the rest of the section is devoted to a discussion and demonstration of its properties.
Section 4 presents a simulation study of the power of the procedure.

                           2.   FALSE DISCOVERY RATE
  Consider the problem of testing simultaneously m (null) hypotheses, of which
m., are true. R is the number of hypotheses rejected. Table 1 summarizes the
