294                            BENJAMINI AND HOCHBERG                               [No.1,

               let k be the largest i for which P(i) ~         i    . a;
                                                            m + 1 -1
                        then reject all H(i) i = 1, 2, ... , k.

   Note the relationship between Hochberg's procedure and the FDR controlling
procedure when q* is chosen to equal a. Both Hochberg's procedure and the FDR
controlling procedure are step-down procedures, which start by comparing P(m)
with a, and if smaller all hypotheses are rejected - as if a PCER approach had been
taken. If P(m) > a, proceed to smaller p-values until one satisfies the condition.




                                                                                               Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/jrsssb/article/57/1/289/7035855 by guest on 28 July 2026
The procedures end, if not terminated earlier, by comparing PO) with aim, as in
a pure Bonferroni comparison. At the two ends the procedures are similar, but, in
between, the sequence of p(i)s is compared with {I - (i - 1)lm}a in the current
procedure, rather than with {1/ (m + 1 - i)}a in Hochberg's procedure. The series
of linearly decreasing constants of the FDR controlling method is always larger than
the hyperbolically decreasing constants of Hochberg, and the extreme ratio is as
large as 4ml(m + 1)2 at i = (m + 1)12. This shows that the suggested procedure
rejects samplewise at least as many hypotheses as Hochberg's method and therefore
has also greater power than other FWER controlling methods such as Holm's
(1979).


          3.2. Example oj False Discovery Rate Controlling Procedure
   Thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) and
anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator (APSAC) in myocardial infarction
has been proved to reduce mortality. Neuhaus et al. (1992) investigated the effects
of a new front-loaded administration of rt-PA versus those obtained with a standard
regimen of APSAC, in a randomized multi centre trial in 421 patients with acute
myocardial infarction. Four families of hypotheses can be identified in the study:

  (a) base-line comparisons (11 hypotheses), where the problem is of showing
      equivalence;
  (b) patency of infarct-related artery (eight hypotheses);
  (c) reocclusion rates of patent infarct-related artery (six hypotheses);
  (d) cardiac and other events after the start of thrombolitic treatment (15
      hypotheses) .

In this last family FDR control may be desired: we do not wish to conclude that the
front-loaded treatment is better if it is merely equivalent to the previous treatment
in all respects.
   In the paper, however, there is no attention to the problem of multiplicity (the
only exception being the division of the end points into primary and secondary).
The individual p-values are reported as they are, with no word of warning regarding
their interpretation. The authors conclude that
  'Compared to APSAC treatment, despite more early reocclusions, the clinical course with
  rt-PA treatment is more favorable with fewer bleeding complications and a substantially
  lower in-hospital mortality rate, presumably due to improved early patency of the infarct-
  related artery'.
