292                           BENJAMINI AND HOCHBERG                            [No.1,
                                   2.2. Examples
   The following examples show the relevance of FOR control in some typical situa-
tions. In addition they indicate the desirability of a large number of rejections (dis-
coveries). Both aspects are addressed by the procedure given later in Section 3.
   One type of multiple-comparison problem involves an overall decision (conclu-
sion, recommendation, etc.) which is based on multiple inferences. An example of
this type of problems is the 'multiple end points problem', which was used earlier
to show that FWER control is not always needed. In this example the overall
decision problem is whether to recommend a new treatment over a standard
treatment. Discoveries here are rejections of null hypotheses claiming that treatment




                                                                                          Downloaded from https://academic.oup.com/jrsssb/article/57/1/289/7035855 by guest on 28 July 2026
is no better than standard on specified end points. These conclusions about different
aspects of the benefit of the new treatment are of interest per se, but the set of
discoveries will be used to reach an overall decision regarding the new treatment.
We wish therefore to make as many discoveries as possible (which will enhance a
decision in favour of the new treatment), subject to control of the FDR. Control
of the probability of any error is unnecessarily stringent, as a small proportion of
errors will not change the overall validity of the conclusion.
   Another type of problems involves multiple separate decisions without an overall
decision being required. An example of this type is the multiple-subgroups problem,
where two treatments are compared in multiple subgroups, and separate recommen-
dations on the preferred treatments must be made for all subgroups. As usual
we wish to discover as many as possible significant differences, thereby reaching
operational decisions, but would be willing to admit a prespecified proportion of
misses, i.e. willing to use an FOR controlling procedure.
   The third type involves screening problems, where multiple potential effects are
screened to weed out the null effects. One example is screening of various chemicals
for potential drug development. Another example is testing multiple factors in
an experimental (2 k say) design. In such examples we want to obtain as many as
possible discoveries (candidates for drug developments, factors that affect the
quality of a product) but again wish to control the FOR, because too large a fraction
of false leads would burden the second phase of the confirmatory analysis.

                            2.3. Alternative Formulations
   We have suggested to capture the error rate vaguely described as 'the proportion
of false discoveries' using the FOR. At this point it might be illuminating to discuss
alternative formulations of this concept, and thus to motivate our choice of FOR
further.
   Undoubtedly, controlling the random variable Q at each realization is most desir-
able. This is impossible, for if m., = m and even if a single hypothesis is rejected
vir = 1 and Q cannot then be controlled. Controlling (VIR IR > 0) has the same
problem - it is identically 1 in the above configuration. Therefore E(V IR IR > 0)
cannot be controlled. The FOR, instead, is P(R > 0) E(V IR IR > 0), and, as will
be shown later, this is possible to control.
   Second, consider the formulation that Soric (1989) gave to 'the proportion of
false discoveries among the discoveries' as Q' = E(V)lr. This quotient is neither
the random variable Q nor its expectation but is a mixture of expectations and
realizations. It is not even the conditional expectation of Q, namely E(Q IR = r)
 = E(V IR = r)lr, which has again the problem of control for m., = m.
