whether usage of AI for an occupation is primarily a substitute or complement for labor.15 Table A1

shows example occupations that are in the highest and lowest exposure category for each measure.

       Figure 6 shows employment changes by overall prevalence of related Claude queries. The pat-

terns match the findings using the Eloundou et al. (2024) measures closely. Figure 7 likewise shows

that the occupations with the highest estimated automation shares have experienced declining

employment for the youngest workers.

       In contrast, Figure 8 indicates that the occupations with the highest estimated augmentation

shares have not experienced a similar pattern. Employment changes for young workers are not

ordered by augmentation exposure, as the fifth quintile has among the fastest employment growth.

The findings are consistent with automative uses of AI substituting for labor while augmentative

uses do not.16


4.4      Fact 4: Employment declines for young, AI-exposed workers remain after
         conditioning on firm-time shocks

While our results so far are consistent with the hypothesis that generative AI is causing a decline

in entry-level employment, there are plausible alternative explanations. One class of explanations

is that our patterns are explained by industry- or firm-level shocks correlated with sorting patterns

by age and measured AI exposure. For example, one possibility is that young workers with high

measured AI exposure are disproportionately likely to sort to firms heavily susceptible to interest

rate increases.

       We test for a class of such confounders by controlling for a rich set of fixed effects. For each

age group, we estimate the Poisson regression


                   log(E[yf,q,t ]) =                   γq′ ,j 1{t = j}1{q ′ = q} + αf,q + βf,t + ϵf,q,t          (4.1)
                                       X X

                                       q ′ ̸=1 j̸=−1

  15
     Figures A2 and A3 show that automation and augmentation results are similar when dropping occupations with
low overall Claude usage.
  16
     Note that occupations in the first two quintiles of the augmentation measure have very low Claude usage overall,
with the average occupation in these quintiles comprising 0.01% and 0.09% of conversations, respectively. These
occupations have a high share of conversations that are classified as neither automative nor augmentative. In contrast,
occupations in the third through fifth quintiles average 0.47%, 0.39%, and 0.33% of Claude conversations. For the
automation measure, overall Claude usage increases on average with the automation share, with the lowest exposure
group averaging 0.05% of conversations and the highest group averaging 0.73%.




                                                               15
