Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages (QCEW).10 These prior papers use data that lack

either sufficient granularity or immediacy to reliably study employment changes by AI exposure

and age (O’Brien, 2025).11 In contrast, this paper uses large-scale, close to real-time data to take

a step towards resolving the ongoing debate on the employment effects of AI on young workers.



3         Data Description

3.1        Payroll Data

This study uses data from ADP, the largest payroll processing firm in America. The company

provides payroll services for firms employing over 25 million workers in the US. We use this infor-

mation to track employment changes for workers in occupations measured as more or less exposed

to artificial intelligence.

         We make several sample restrictions for our main analysis sample. We include only workers

employed by firms that use ADP’s payroll product to maintain worker earnings records. We also

exclude employees classified by firms as part-time from the analysis and subset to people between

the age of 18 and 70.12

         The set of firms using payroll services changes over time as companies join or leave ADP’s

platform. We maintain a consistent set of firms across our main sample period by keeping only

companies that have employee earnings records for each month from January 2021 through July

2025.

         In addition, ADP observes job titles for about 70% of workers in its system. We exclude workers

who do not have a recorded job title. There are over 7,000 standardized job titles, examples of which

include “Search engineer optimization specialist,” “Enterprise content management manager,” and

“Plant documentation control specialist.” The company’s internal research team maps each of
    10
      Johnston and Makridis (2025) measure state-industry exposure by taking an average of Eloundou et al. (2024)’s
occupational exposure weighted by state-industry employment. Industry-level labor market changes may be distinct
from the occupation-level changes studied in this paper if firms make capital investments or become more productive
in ways that increases overall labor demand (Hampole et al., 2025).
   11
      As a comparison, the CPS surveyed between 44,000 and 51,000 employed individuals in total across all age groups
in each month since 2021. Between 10,000 and 12,000 of these observations were in the outgoing rotation group and
included earnings records. The data in our main analysis sample includes between 250,000 and 350,000 employed
individuals in each month just between the ages of 22 and 25, all with earnings records.
   12
      While we observe the year of birth for each worker, for privacy reasons we do not observe the exact date of birth.
We impute month of birth from the distribution of birth months in the United States using data from the Center for
Disease Control and Prevention.


                                                           7
