consistent with the case studies above that show employment changes are visible across a range

of occupations. Results with firm-time fixed effects in Figure 9 further show that our findings are

robust to firm- or industry-level shocks that impact general hiring trends. These results indicate

that our findings are not specific to technology roles.


Remote Work           Figures A6 and A7 show results for occupations amenable to remote work (tele-

work) and those that are not, according to Dingel and Neiman (2020).22 We find that, for young

workers, more exposed occupations have slower employment growth, both in teleworkable occu-

pations and in non-teleworkable occupations. The results for non-teleworkable occupations in

particular suggest that our findings are not driven by outsourcing or work-from-home disruptions,

at least solely.23


Longer Sample          Figure A8 shows results when extending the balanced sample of firms to 2018.

This reduces the sample size and makes the data somewhat noisier. Nonetheless, the trends remain

largely ordered by exposure in the post-GPT era, whereas this is not the case before 2022. A concern

is that for the Eloundou et al. (2024) measures the most exposed quintile had slower employment

growth starting around 2020. This is not the case for the Anthropic exposure measures, shown

in Figures A9, A10, and A11. For these measures the most exposed groups have comparable

employment growth throughout the period before generative AI, with divergent trends afterwards.


Changes in Education Another possibility is that the changes we observe are influenced by

worsening education outcomes during the COVID-19 Pandemic. COVID-19 led to persistent harms

in education outcomes (Kuhfeld and Lewis, 2025). As more educated workers on average have

greater measured AI exposure, deterioration in the quality of education in recent years could influ-

ence the trends we observe.24 In Figure A12 we show trends for occupations in which greater than
   22
      Whether an occupation is amenable to remote work is positively correlated with AI exposure. Only two telework-
able occupations fall in the lowest quintile of estimated AI exposure according to the GPT-4 β measure. Likewise
few non-teleworkable occupations fall in the highest quintile of AI exposure. For this reason in Figure A6 we pool
together the two lowest AI exposure quintiles into one group. In Figure A7 we pool together the two highest AI
exposure quintiles.
   23
      Non-teleworkable occupations with high AI exposure include bank tellers, travel agents, and tax preparers.
   24
      Chandar (2025a) finds that declines in average skill levels for college graduates explain a sizable share of the
slowdown in the growth of the college wage gap in recent decades.




                                                         24
