these job titles to a 2010 Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) code, additionally using

information such as the job description, industry, location, and other relevant data. We use these

estimated SOC codes to merge our data to occupational AI exposure measures described below in

Section 3.2.

    After these restrictions we have records on between 3.5 and 5 million workers each month for

our main analysis sample, though we consider robustness to alternative analyses such as allowing

for firms to enter and leave the sample.

    While the ADP data include millions of workers in each month, the distribution of firms using

ADP services does not exactly match the distribution of firms across the broader US economy.

Further details on differences in firm composition can be found in Cajner et al. (2018) and ADP

Research (2025).13


3.2    Occupational AI Exposure

We use two different approaches for measuring occupational exposure to AI. The first uses exposure

measures from Eloundou et al. (2024). Eloundou et al. (2024) estimate AI exposure by O*NET

task using ChatGPT validated with human labeling. They then construct occupational exposure

measures by aggregating the task data to the 2018 SOC code level. We focus on the GPT-4 based

β exposure measures from their paper.

    The second primary approach we take uses data on generative AI usage from the Anthropic

Economic Index (Handa et al., 2025). This index reports the estimated share of queries pertaining

to each O*NET task based on a sample of several million conversations with Claude, Anthropic’s

generative AI model. It then aggregates the data to the occupational level based on these task

shares. One feature of the Anthropic Economic Index is that for each task it also reports estimates

of the share of queries pertaining to that task that are “automative,” “augmentative,” or none of

the above. We use this information as an estimate of whether usage of AI for an occupation is

primarily complementary or substitutable with labor.14
   13
      Cajner et al. (2018) find a somewhat higher share of manufacturing and services firms compared to the Quarterly
Census of Employment and Wages (QCEW) using data from March 2016. They also find that ADP somewhat
overrepresents firms in the Northeast. In addition, firms using ADP tend to grow faster on average than the typical
firm in the US economy.
   14
      Specifically, Handa et al. (2025) first use Claude to classify conversations into six categories: Directive, meaning
complete task delegation with minimal interaction; Feedback Loop, meaning task completion guided by environmen-
tal feedback such as when repeatedly relaying coding errors to the model; Task Iteration, meaning a collaborative


                                                            8
