          Canaries in the Coal Mine? Six Facts about the Recent

                   Employment Effects of Artificial Intelligence

                   Erik Brynjolfsson∗            Bharat Chandar†              Ruyu Chen‡§¶

                                              August 26, 2025



                                                   Abstract

          This paper examines changes in the labor market for occupations exposed to generative
       artificial intelligence using high-frequency administrative data from the largest payroll software
       provider in the United States. We present six facts that characterize these shifts. We find that
       since the widespread adoption of generative AI, early-career workers (ages 22-25) in the most
       AI-exposed occupations have experienced a 13 percent relative decline in employment even after
       controlling for firm-level shocks. In contrast, employment for workers in less exposed fields and
       more experienced workers in the same occupations has remained stable or continued to grow.
       We also find that adjustments occur primarily through employment rather than compensation.
       Furthermore, employment declines are concentrated in occupations where AI is more likely to
       automate, rather than augment, human labor. Our results are robust to alternative explanations,
       such as excluding technology-related firms and excluding occupations amenable to remote work.
       These six facts provide early, large-scale evidence consistent with the hypothesis that the AI
       revolution is beginning to have a significant and disproportionate impact on entry-level workers
       in the American labor market.
   ∗
     Stanford University and NBER; erikb@stanford.edu
   †
     Stanford University; chandarb@stanford.edu
   ‡
     Stanford University; ruyuchen@stanford.edu
   §
     Thanks to Nick Bloom, Joshua Gans, David Autor, Daniel Rock, Fei-Fei Li, Frank Li, Christina Langer, Sarah
Bana, Cody Cook, Chris Forman, Andrew Wang, Brad Ross, Omeed Maghzian, Basil Halperin, Jiaxin Pei, Phil
Trammell, Eric Bergman and participants at the Stanford Digital Economy Lab workshop for helpful feedback. We
are grateful to ADP for access to the data and the Stanford Digital Economy Lab for financial support. All errors
are our own.
   ¶
     Latest version: https://digitaleconomy.stanford.edu/publications/canaries-in-the-coal-mine/




                                                       1
