granularity, providing a near real-time view of labor market adjustments. By linking this data to

established measures of occupational AI exposure and other variables, we can quantify the realized

employment changes since the widespread adoption of generative AI.

   This paper systematically presents six key facts that emerge from the data, offering an assess-

ment of how the AI revolution is reshaping the American workforce.

   Our first key finding is that we uncover substantial declines in employment for early-career

workers (ages 22-25) in occupations most exposed to AI, such as software developers and cus-

tomer service representatives. In contrast, employment trends for more experienced workers in the

same occupations, and workers of all ages in less-exposed occupations such as nursing aides, have

remained stable or continued to grow.

   Our second key fact is that overall employment continues to grow robustly, but employment

growth for young workers in particular has been stagnant since late 2022. In jobs less exposed to

AI young workers have experienced comparable employment growth to older workers. In contrast,

workers aged 22 to 25 have experienced a 6% decline in employment from late 2022 to July 2025

in the most AI-exposed occupations, compared to a 6-9% increase for older workers. These results

suggest that declining employment AI-exposed jobs is driving tepid overall employment growth for

22- to 25- year-olds as employment for older workers continues to grow.

   Our third key fact is that not all uses of AI are associated with declines in employment. In

particular, entry-level employment has declined in applications of AI that automate work, but not

those that most augment it. We distinguish between automation and augmentation empirically

using estimates of the extent to which observed queries to Claude, the LLM, substitute or com-

plement for the tasks in that occupation. While we find employment declines for young workers

in occupations where AI primarily automates work, we find employment growth in occupations

in which AI use is most augmentative. These findings are consistent with automative uses of AI

substituting for labor while augmentative uses do not.

   Fourth, we find that employment declines for young, AI-exposed workers remain after condition-

ing on firm-time effects. One class of explanations for our patterns is that they may be driven by

industry- or firm-level shocks such as interest rate changes that correlate with sorting patterns by

age and measured AI exposure. We test for a class of such confounders by controlling for firm-time

effects in an event study regression, absorbing aggregate firm shocks that impact all workers at a

                                                 3
