70% of workers have a college degree according to the 2017 American Community Survey (ACS).25

In Figure A13 we show trends for occupations in which fewer than 30% of workers have a college

degree.

       Occupations with a high share of college graduates have declining employment overall, with

muted differences between more-exposed and less-exposed occupations compared to our main re-

sults. In contrast, occupations with a low share of college graduates have rising overall employment,

with the least AI-exposed occupations growing and the most exposed occupations declining in em-

ployment. Further, for lower college share occupations, the dispersion in employment outcomes is

visible in higher age groups as well, with workers up to age 40 showing separation in employment

trends by AI exposure. These findings suggest that deteriorating education outcomes cannot fully

explain our main results. They also suggest that for non-college workers, experience may serve as

less of a buffer to labor market disruption than for college workers.


Other Robustness Checks Figures A14 and A15 show results separately for men and women.

The results are similar, suggesting that diverging prospects for men and women are not driving

our findings. Figure A16 shows that results are similar when we do not take a balanced sample of

firms. Figure A17 shows similar results when including part-time and temporary workers.26


Comparison to CPS Data A useful benchmark for our findings is to compare them to estimates

from the monthly Current Population Survey (CPS). The CPS surveys about 60,000 households

nationwide each month to collect data on employment and other labor force characteristics. These

data are released a few weeks after the reference month, giving close to real-time estimates of

employment statistics. A number of prior analyses have used the CPS to assess how AI is impact-

ing entry-level work (Chandar, 2025b; Dominski and Lee, 2025; Lim et al., 2025; Eckhardt and

Goldschlag, 2025). We compare some of our main findings in the ADP data to estimates from the

CPS.

       Figures A18 through A20 show employment changes by age for software developers, customer
  25
     Not a single occupation in the first quintile of GPT-4 β based exposure measure has a college share above 35%,
so that quintile is excluded from the results in Figure A12.
  26
     Another possibility is that employment trends are driven by Covid-19 Pandemic-era stimulus checks that distorted
labor supply. However, these stimulus payments were conditioned on income requirements, and more AI-exposed occu-
pations on average have higher incomes (Kochhar, 2023), suggesting the observed declines in AI-exposed occupations
are unlikely to be driven by this channel.


                                                         25
