  • Fifth, these labor market adjustments are more visible in employment than in compensation.

  • Sixth, we find that these patterns hold in occupations unaffected by remote work and across

     various alternative sample constructions.


   While our main estimates may be influenced by factors other than generative AI, our results

are consistent with the hypothesis that generative AI has begun to significantly affect entry-level

employment.

   The adoption of new technologies typically leads to heterogeneous effects across workers, result-

ing in an adjustment period as workers reallocate from displaced forms of work to new forms with

growing labor demand (Autor et al., 2024). Such endogenous adjustment may already be happening

with AI, with emerging evidence of shifts in college majors away from AI-exposed categories such

as computer science (Horowitch, 2025). Past transitions such as the IT revolution ultimately led

to robust growth in employment and real wages following physical and human capital adjustments,

with some workers benefiting more than others (Bresnahan et al., 2002; Brynjolfsson et al., 2021).

   Tracking employment trends on an ongoing basis will help determine if the adjustment to AI

follows a similar pattern. Consequently, we will continue to monitor these outcomes to assess

whether the trends documented in the paper accelerate in the future. Future work would benefit

from better firm-level AI adoption data, which would provide sharper variation for estimating

plausible causal effects of AI on employment.



References

Acemoglu, D. and D. Autor (2011): “Skills, Tasks and Technologies: Implications for Em-

  ployment and Earnings*,” in Handbook of Labor Economics, ed. by D. Card and O. Ashenfelter,

  Elsevier, vol. 4, 1043–1171. 1

Acemoglu, D., D. Autor, J. Hazell, and P. Restrepo (2022): “Artificial Intelligence and

  Jobs: Evidence from Online Vacancies,” Journal of Labor Economics, 40, S293–S340, publisher:

  The University of Chicago Press. 9

ADP Research (2025): “ADP National Employment Report,” . 3.1



                                                 27
