1        Introduction

The proliferation of generative artificial intelligence (AI) has sparked a global debate about its

potential impact on the labor market. This discourse, across academia, public policy, business, and

popular media, spans utopian predictions of enhanced productivity, dystopian fears of widespread

job displacement, and skeptical views that AI will have minimal effects on employment or pro-

ductivity. Historically, technologies have affected different tasks, occupations, and industries in

different ways, replacing work in some, augmenting others, and transforming still others. These

heterogeneous effects suggest that there may be “canaries in the coal mine” which are harbingers

of more widespread effects of AI.

        There have been rapid improvements in AI capabilities in several areas. For instance, according

to the most recent AI Index Report, AI systems could solve just 4.4% of coding problems on SWE-

Bench, a widely used benchmark for software engineering, in 2023, but performance increased to

71.7% in 2024 (Maslej et al., 2025).1 AI has improved on other benchmarks as well including

language understanding, subject knowledge, and reasoning. At the same time, AI systems are

increasingly widely adopted. According to Hartley et al. (2025), LLM adoption at work among

U.S. survey respondents above age 18 reached 46% by June/July 2025.2

        Given the better capabilities and widespread adoption, a central concern, amplified in recent

headlines, is whether AI is beginning to supplant human labor, particularly for younger, entry-level

workers in highly exposed professions like software engineering and customer service.3

        Despite the intensity of this debate, empirical evidence has struggled to keep pace with techno-

logical advancement, leaving many fundamental questions unanswered. This paper confronts this

empirical gap by leveraging a large-scale, high-frequency administrative dataset from ADP, the

largest payroll software provider in the United States. Our sample consists of monthly, individual-

level payroll records through July 2025, encompassing millions of workers across tens of thousands

of firms. This rich panel structure allows us to track employment dynamics with a high degree of
    1
      SWE-bench is designed to evaluate the performance of large language models (LLMs) on real-world software
engineering tasks. It uses a collection of GitHub issues to assess an LLM’s ability to generate code that resolves those
issues.
    2
      Similarly, Bick et al. (2024) found that in late 2024, nearly 40% of the U.S. population age 18-64 reported using
generative AI, with 23% of employed respondents saying they had used generative AI for work at least once in the
previous week, and 9% every work day.
    3
      Improved productivity of workers in an occupation could lead to either reduced or increased employment, de-
pending on, among other things, how elastic demand is for the output of those workers.


                                                           2
