4.5      Fact 5: Labor market adjustments are visible in employment more than
         compensation

In addition to employment we observe workers’ annual base compensation. We use this information

to test for labor market adjustment along the compensation margin.19 Salary data are deflated to

2017 dollars using the PCE index.20

       Results are in Figure 10. The findings indicate a less marked divergence in compensation

compared to employment across more and less exposed occupations. Figure 11 shows results by

age and Eloundou et al. (2024)-based exposure quintile. We find little difference in compensation

trends by age or exposure quintile.

       Prior work by Autor and Thompson (2025) notes that technology that replaces inexpert tasks

may reduce occupational employment but increase occupational wages; technology that replaces

expert tasks may do the opposite. The sign of the wage effect depends on the overall share of tasks

displaced as well as the whether these tasks are expert or inexpert. The limited changes we find

for wages suggest that these effects may be offsetting, at least in the short run. Alternatively, the

results could be explained by wage stickiness in the short run, consistent with recent evidence from

Davis and Krolikowski (2025).


4.6      Fact 6: Findings are largely consistent under alternative sample construc-
         tions

We test the robustness of these results to alternative sample constructions and robustness checks.


Excluding Technology Occupations One possibility is that our results are explained by a

general slowdown in technology hiring from 2022 to 2023 as firms recovered from the COVID-19

Pandemic.21 Figure A4 shows employment changes by age and exposure quintile after excluding

computer occupations, corresponding to 2010 SOC codes that start with 15-1. Figure A5 shows

results when excluding firms in the information sector (NAICS code 51). Results are quite similar,
  19
     Total compensation may additionally include bonuses, overtime pay, commissions, equity, tips, and other items.
These may have a greater impact on overall compensation in certain professions and age groups than others.
  20
     In contrast to the series for employment, results for compensation end in June 2025, the most recently available
month for the PCE index.
  21
     Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, amendments to Internal Revenue Code §174 enacted in 2022 also disallowed
companies from immediately deducting R&D expenditures, including software development costs. These costs instead
had to be capitalized and amortized over five years for domestic research and fifteen years for foreign research.


                                                         21
