f indexes firms, q indexes Eloundou et al. (2024) exposure quintiles, and t indexes months, with

t = −1 corresponding to October 2022. The outcome variable yf,q,t is employment in f, q, t.

Equation 4.1 is a Poisson event study regression controlling for firm-quintile effects, αf,q , and firm-

time effects, βf,t . The firm-time effects absorb aggregate firm shocks that impact each exposure

quintile equally. The firm-quintile effects adjust for baseline differences in hiring across quintiles

within the firm. The coefficients of interest, γq,t , measure differential changes in employment growth

across quintiles after accounting for firm-time effects and firm-quintile effects.17

    We run this regression separately for each age group. For each regression, we restrict to firms

that hire at least 10 workers within the age group in every period of the sample. Further,
                                                                                                               P
                                                                                                                 t yf,q,t

must equal at least 100 for each q, meaning that the firm must at least employ on average about 2

workers from each exposure quintile across months in the sample.18 Standard errors are clustered

by firm.

    Results are in Figure 9, which plots the γq,t coefficients for each age group. For workers aged

22-25, estimates for higher quintiles are large and statistically significant, with a 12 log point de-

cline in relative employment comparable in magnitude to the estimates in the raw data in Figure 3.

Estimates for other age groups are generally much smaller in magnitude and not statistically sig-

nificant. These findings imply that the employment trends we observe are not driven by differential

shocks to firms that employ a disproportionate share of AI-exposed young workers.

    One alternative confounder that would not be controlled for with firm-time effects is that even

conditional on the firm workers with high AI exposure were excessively hired after the COVID-

19 pandemic, leading to a subsequent contraction in their hiring. To assess such alternatives we

consider various other robustness checks in Section 4.6, such as removing computer occupations

and conditioning on whether the occupation is amenable to work from home.
  17
     Because of zero counts in the outcome variable, we estimate a Poisson regression instead of an OLS regression in
logs following guidance from Chen and Roth (2024).
  18
     Results are not sensitive to these restrictions, though there must be at least one non-zero value in each firm-month
and each firm-quintile for observations to not get dropped in the Poisson regression.




                                                           19
