service representatives, and home health aides by age using data from the CPS. Though there are

millions of workers employed in these professions across the US, the estimates are highly volatile,

with common fluctuations of 20% or greater in estimated employment month-to-month. Figure A21

shows estimated employment changes by age and exposure quintile using the CPS, also suggesting

a high degree of volatility in the estimates.

    This volatility in CPS microdata reflects small sample sizes and the fact that the CPS is not

stratified to target employment statistics for these demographic-occupation subgroups.27 The sam-

ple size and sampling procedure of the CPS may therefore make it challenging to assess employment

changes by age and AI exposure with a high degree of confidence over the time horizon considered

in this paper (Chandar, 2025b; O’Brien, 2025).

    Other large-scale data sources such as the American Community Survey (ACS) may offer a more

reliable comparison to the ADP data, though the ACS is released with a significant lag compared

to the data from ADP. We encourage comparison of our findings to results from other data sources

such as the ACS upon their release.28



5     Conclusion

We document six facts about the recent labor market effects of artificial intelligence.


    • First, we find substantial declines in employment for early-career workers in occupations most

      exposed to AI, such as software development and customer support.

    • Second, we show that economy-wide employment continues to grow, but employment growth

      for young workers has been stagnant.

    • Third, entry-level employment has declined in applications of AI that automate work, with

      muted effects for those that augment it.

    • Fourth, these employment declines remain after conditioning on firm-time effects, with a 13%

      relative employment decline for young workers in the most exposed occupations.
  27
     The CPS includes between 26 and 53 young software developers aged between 22 and 25 per month over our
sample period. It includes between 49 and 95 young customer service representatives, and between 2 and 14 young
home health aides.
  28
     The 2024 ACS 1-Year Public Use Microdata Sample is scheduled to be released on October 16, 2025.



                                                      26
