firm regardless of AI exposure. For workers aged 22-25, we find a 12 log-point decline in relative

employment for the most AI-exposed quintiles compared to the least exposed quintile, a large and

statistically significant effect. Estimates for other age groups are much smaller in magnitude and

not statistically significant. These findings imply that the employment trends we observe are not

driven by differential shocks to firms that employ a disproportionate share of AI-exposed young

workers.

      Fifth, the labor market adjustments are visible in employment more than compensation. In

contrast to our findings for employment, we find little difference in annual salary trends by age

or exposure quintile, suggesting possible wage stickiness. If so, AI may have larger effects on

employment than on wages, at least initially.

      Sixth, the above facts are largely consistent across various alternative sample constructions. We

find that our results are not driven solely by computer occupations or by occupations susceptible to

remote work and outsourcing. We also find that the AI exposure taxonomy did not meaningfully

predict employment outcomes for young workers further back in time, before the widespread use

of LLMs, including during the unemployment spike driven by the COVID-19 pandemic. The

patterns we observe in the data appear most acutely starting in late 2022, around the time of rapid

proliferation of generative AI tools.4 They also hold for both occupations with a high share of college

graduates and ones with a low college share, suggesting deteriorating education outcomes during

COVID-19 do not drive our results. For non-college workers, we find evidence that experience

may serve as less of a buffer to labor market disruption, as low college share occupations exhibit

divergent employment outcomes by AI exposure up to age 40.

      While we caution that the facts we document may in part be influenced by factors other than

generative AI, our results are consistent with the hypothesis that generative AI has begun to affect

entry-level employment. We intend to continue to track the data on an ongoing basis to assess

whether these trends change in the future.

      Why might AI adversely affect exposed entry-level workers more than other age groups? One

possibility is that, by nature of the model training process, AI replaces codified knowledge, the

“book-learning” that forms the core of formal education. AI may be less capable of replacing
  4
      OpenAI introduced ChatGPT in November 2022.




                                                    4
