      Unlike Dobkin et al. (2018), we restrict our analysis to a subsample of these individuals who appear

throughout waves 7-11 (roughly 2004-2012). Our sample of analysis therefore includes HRS respondents

with index hospitalization during waves 8-11. The purpose of this sample restriction is to maintain a bal-

anced panel with a reasonable sample size.

      Here i indexes an individual, and t indexes survey wave (T = 4) and is normalized to zero for wave 7,

the first wave in our sample. Among the outcomes Yi,t studied by Dobkin et al. (2018), we focus on two:

out-of-pocket medical spending and labor earnings. They are derived from self-reports, adjusted to 2005

dollars and censored at the 99.95th percentile.

      Summary statistics. Table 2 presents basic summary statistics for our analysis sample before hospital-

ization. We have a slightly lower fraction of white in our sample, but otherwise have a similar sample to

Dobkin et al. (2018).

      In Panel D, we compare means of the cross-sectional distributions of outcomes for individuals who have

not been hospitalized by each wave. The size of the sample conditional on not having been hospitalized

strictly decreases with each subsequent wave. There are apparent time trends in our outcomes of interest

prior to hospitalization as we observe distributional changes across waves. Out-of-pocket medical spendings

fluctuate and earnings decrease with each wave on average as more individuals are retired in each subsequent

wave.


5.2     Setting

We illustrate how variations in the timing of hospitalization fit the event studies design proposed in Section 2.

We define treatment Di,t to be ever having been hospitalized. In our terminology, we categorize individuals

into cohorts based on Ei , which is defined as the survey wave of their initial hospitalization. Since we

restrict the sample to individuals who were ever hospitalized in waves 8-11, there are four cohorts Ei ∈

{1, 2, 3, 4}. Although hospitalization itself may not be an absorbing state, we are trying to model the impact

of having had any hospitalization. Thus, the cohort-specific average treatment effects C ATTe,` trace out

the path of treatment effects for cohort e following a negative health shock (even though the shock itself

may be transient), as opposed to never having been hospitalized. Next we discuss whether each of the three

identifying assumptions proposed is likely to hold in the context of unexpected hospitalizations.

      Parallel trends (Assumption 1). Hospitalization is likely to be earlier among sicker individuals with

high out-of-pocket medical spending and low labor earnings. Thus, it is not plausible that the baseline

                                                       26
