1    Introduction

Rich panel data has fueled a growing literature estimating treatment effects with two-way fixed effects re-

gressions. This body of applied work has prompted a corresponding econometrics literature investigating

the assumptions required for these regressions to yield causally interpretable estimates. For example, Athey

and Imbens (2018), Borusyak and Jaravel (2017), Callaway and Sant’Anna (2020a), de Chaisemartin and

D’Haultfœuille (2020) and Goodman-Bacon (2018) interpret the coefficient on the treatment status when

there is treatment effects heterogeneity and variation in treatment timing. Researchers are often also inter-

ested in dynamic treatment effects, which they estimate by the coefficients µ` associated with indicators for

being ` periods relative to the treatment, in a specification that resembles the following:

                                                      Õ
                                   Yi,t = αi + λt +       µ` 1{t − Ei = `} + υi,t .                            (1)
                                                      `


Here Yi,t is the outcome of interest for unit i at time t, Ei is the time when unit i initially receives the binary

absorbing treatment, and αi and λt are the unit and time fixed effects. Units are categorized into different

cohorts based on their initial treatment timing. The relative times ` = t − Ei included in (1) cover most of the

possible relative periods, but may still exclude some periods.

    The first goal of this paper is to uncover potential pitfalls associated with using the estimates of the

relative period coefficients µ` as “reasonable” measures of dynamic treatment effects. We decompose µ` to

show it can be expressed as a linear combination of cohort-specific effects from both its own relative period

` and other relative periods; unless strong assumptions regarding treatment effects homogeneity hold, the

terms that include treatment effects from other relative periods will not cancel out and will contaminate the

estimate of µ` . Importantly, this demonstrates that the widespread practice of using estimates of treatment

leads in (1) as a way of testing for parallel pretrends is problematic. Roth (2019), in his survey of the applied

literature, notes that checking whether µ` = 0 for ` leads of treatment is a common test for pretrends. Our

decomposition result implies that such a test would be invalid because the estimate of µ` is affected by both

pretrends and treatment effects heterogeneity, thus any test of µ` = 0 cannot accept or reject the existence of

pretrends without further assumptions on treatment effects.

    We show how to calculate the weights underlying the linear combination of treatment effects in µ` using

an auxiliary regression. This auxiliary regression depends only on the distribution of cohorts and the relative



                                                           2
