      Assumption 3 requires that each cohort experiences the same path of treatment effects. Treatment effects

need to be the same across cohorts in every relative period for homogeneity to hold, whereas for heterogene-

ity to occur, treatment effects only need to differ across cohorts in one relative period. The assumption of

treatment effect homogeneity is therefore strong, and in Section 3.4.1, we describe how it can be violated in

applied settings.

      Our notion of treatment effect homogeneity does not preclude dynamic treatment effects; it only im-

poses that cohorts share the same path of treatment effects. The related literature sometimes formulates

restrictions on the dynamics of treatment effects as another notion of treatment effect homogeneity. Athey

and Imbens (2018) propose an assumption that “restricts the heterogeneity of the treatment effects over

time,” which implies C ATTe,` can vary over e but not over `. Borusyak and Jaravel (2017) refer to one

type of treatment effects heterogeneity as “only across the time horizon,” which implies C ATTe,` can vary

over ` but not over e. Callaway and Sant’Anna (2020a) allow for “arbitrary treatment effect heterogeneity”

when C ATTe,` varies across cohorts and over time. Similarly, de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020)

describe treatment effects that may be “heterogeneous across groups and over time periods.” Goodman-

Bacon (2018) allow heterogenous effects to either “vary across units but not over time” or “vary over time

but not across units.” The literature has not converged on a single notion of treatment effects heterogeneity

with time-varying treatment. Since researchers are interested in dynamic treatment effects when using a

“dynamic” specification, we do not restrict the path of treatment effects but rather use “heterogeneity” to

describe variation across cohorts only.


2.3      Relevance in the applied literature

To gauge the empirical relevance of our results, we survey the estimation methods used by the twelve papers

collected by Roth (2019) from three leading economics journals that contain the phrase “event study” in

their main text.1 From this sample of applied papers, we learn what specifications empirical researchers are

actually using when estimating two-way fixed effects regressions. Four papers in this sample consider the

simple setting where units either receive their first treatment at the same time or never receive the treatment.

The other eight papers in this sample consider the more complex setting where treated units receive their
      1 We follow the selection criteria in Roth (2019): the original sample consists of 70 total papers, but is further constrained

to these twelve papers with publicly available data and code. The data and code are used to determine exactly the specification
estimated in these papers.



                                                                  9
