following differences. First, in the setting where there is no never-treated group, our method uses the last co-

hort to be treated as a control group, whereas Callaway and Sant’Anna (2020a) use the set of not-yet-treated

cohorts. Our method and theirs thus rely on different, but non-nested parallel trends assumptions. Second,

our estimation method can be cast as a regression specification and thus may be more familiar to applied

researchers. However, a third difference is that the procedure of Callaway and Sant’Anna (2020a) allows for

conditioning on time-varying covariates. de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020) and Goodman-Bacon

(2018) respectively propose alternative estimators and diagnostic tools for estimation of causal effects in

staggered settings, but do not consider the estimation of the dynamic path of treatment effects as we do.



2    Event studies design

In this section we first formalize the “event studies design”. As discussed in Section 2.3, based on how this

term is deployed in the empirical literature, an event study design is a staggered adoption design where units

are treated at different times, and there may or may not be never treated units. It also nests a difference-in-

differences design, where units are either first treated at time t0 or never treated.

    Specifically, we consider a setting with a random sample of N units observed over T + 1 time periods,

where T is fixed. For each i ∈ {0, . . ., N } and t ∈ {0, ...,T }, we observe the outcome Yi,t and treatment status

Di,t ∈ {0, 1}: Di,t = 1 if i is treated in period t and Di,t = 0 if i is not treated in period t. Throughout we

assume that the observations {Yi,t , Di,t }Tt=0 are independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.).

    In the general case of event studies we focus on an absorbing treatment such that the treatment status

over time is a non-decreasing sequence of zeros and then ones, i.e. Di,s ≤ Di,t for s < t. We can thus uniquely

characterize a treatment path by the time period of the initial treatment, denoted with Ei = min t : Di,t = 1 .
                                                                                                  

If unit i is never treated i.e. Di,t = 0 for all t, we set Ei = ∞. Based on when they first receive the treatment,

we can also uniquely categorize units into disjoint cohorts e for e ∈ {0, . . .,T, ∞}, where units in cohort e are

first treated at the same time {i : Ei = e}.

    We define Yi,te to be the potential outcome in period t when unit i is first treated in time period e. We
         ∞ to be the potential outcome if unit i never receives the treatment, which we call the “baseline
define Yi,t

outcome”. Since the timing of the initial treatment uniquely characterizes one’s treatment path, we can




                                                         5
