          ∞ is mean independent of the timing of hospitalization. The parallel trends assumption is more
outcome Yi,t

plausible as it allows the timing to depend on unobserved time-invariant characteristics such as chronic dis-

ease. Furthermore, hospitalized individuals might be on a downward trend for labor earnings already prior to

hospitalization compared to individuals who are never hospitalized. To reduce such confounding, we follow

Dobkin et al. (2018) to restrict the parallel trends assumption to individuals who were ever hospitalized.

      No anticipatory behavior (Assumption 2). It is plausible that there is no anticipatory behavior prior

to the hospitalization, given that the treatment is restricted to conditions that are likely unexpected hospital-

izations. This assumption may be violated if individuals have private information about the probability of

these hospitalizations over time and thus adjust their behavior prior to hospitalization.

      Treatment effect heterogeneity (Assumptions 3). For out-of-pocket medical spending, the effect of

hospitalization is potentially heterogenous across individuals hospitalized in different waves. Individuals

hospitalized in later waves are mechanically older at the time of hospitalization than individuals hospitalized

in earlier waves. The effect on out-of-pocket medical spending is largely determined by generosity of

health insurance, which may decrease as individuals age into Medicare. The effect on labor earnings is also

likely heterogenous as it depends on the labor market condition at the time of hospitalization: for example,

individuals hospitalized during the financial crisis may find it more difficult to return to the labor force, and

suffer a more grave decrease in earnings.


5.3     Illustrating weights in two-way fixed effects regression

We illustrate our results on two-way fixed effects regression by estimating the following specification with

indicators for up to three leads and lags following equation (3) of Dobkin et al. (2018)


                  Yi,t = αi + λt + µ−3 Di,t
                                        −3
                                            + µ−2 Di,t
                                                   −2
                                                       + µ0 Di,t
                                                             0
                                                                 + µ1 Di,t
                                                                       1
                                                                           + µ2 Di,t
                                                                                 2
                                                                                     + µ3 Di,t
                                                                                           3
                                                                                               + υi,t .     (29)


For their estimation, Dobkin et al. (2018) trim their sample, keeping only observations up to three waves

prior to the hospitalization and three waves after the hospitalization, and weight their regression with survey

weights. To fully illustrate issues with this specification, we do not trim, but rather use a sample balanced in

calendar time for t ∈ {0, . . ., 4}, and do not apply survey weights. With a sample balanced in calendar time,

we need to exclude at least two relative period indicators due to multicollinearity. Following Dobkin et al.

(2018), we exclude the period right before hospitalization (` = −1). We also exclude ` = −4. Since we do


                                                           27
