treatment at various times, and there may or may not be never treated units. This observation suggests an

event study in the applied literature nests two popular research designs: difference-in-differences design, but

also the design where units receive their first treatments at various times, which is our focus.2

    We summarize the main specifications in this sample of twelve applied papers in Table 1.3 The columns

of Table 1 collect key properties of these specifications. In Section 3.1, we introduce a general class of

specifications that encompasses all of these specification. The estimates for relative period coefficients µ`

from all these papers therefore fall under our analysis in the next section.

    These papers demonstrated that event studies are used to address a broad range of research questions.

As an example of this literature, Bailey and Goodman-Bacon (2015) use the rollout of the first Community

Health Centers (CHCs) to study the longer-term health effects of increasing access to primary care. As

another example, Tewari (2014) uses variation in the timing of deregulation across states to estimate the

impact of financial development on homeownership.



3     Estimators from linear two-way fixed effects regression

We consider a two-way fixed effects (FE) regression of the following form, estimated on a panel of i =

1, . . ., N units for t = 0, 1, . . .,T calendar time periods:

                                                              Õ
                                           Yi,t = αi + λt +         µg 1{t − Ei ∈ g} + υi,t                                  (4)
                                                              g∈G


Here Yi,t is the outcome of interest for unit i at time t, Ei is the time for unit i to initially receive a binary

absorbing treatment, and αi and λt are the unit and time fixed effects. The set G collects disjoint sets g

of relative periods ` ∈ [−T,T]. We allow some relative periods to be excluded from the specification and

denote the excluded set with g excl = {` : ` <   g}. We denote by µg the relative period coefficients from
                                               Ð
                                                        g∈G
regression (4), i.e. the population regression coefficients. Their corresponding OLS estimators are denoted

   µg respectively.
by b

    We are interested in the properties of µg when there are variations in the initial treatment timing, and
    2 This setup is the same as the staggered adoption design proposed by Athey and Imbens (2018), but we keep the term event

study because it is common in the applied literature.
    3 We focus on the first specification underlying the event study estimates in each paper, which we view as a reasonable proxy

for the main specification in the paper.



                                                                    10
