                                                 Estimating Dynamic Treatment Effects in Event Studies with

                                                                           Heterogeneous Treatment Effects∗
arXiv:1804.05785v2 [econ.EM] 22 Sep 2020




                                                                                     Liyang Sun† and Sarah Abraham‡

                                                                                             September 22, 2020



                                                                                                     Abstract

                                                      To estimate the dynamic effects of an absorbing treatment, researchers often use two-way fixed
                                                  effects regressions that include leads and lags of the treatment. We show that in settings with variation in
                                                  treatment timing across units, the coefficient on a given lead or lag can be contaminated by effects from
                                                  other periods, and apparent pretrends can arise solely from treatment effects heterogeneity. We propose
                                                  an alternative estimator that is free of contamination, and illustrate the relative shortcomings of two-way
                                                  fixed effects regressions with leads and lags through an empirical application.


                                           Keywords: difference-in-differences, two-way fixed effects, pretrend test




                                               ∗ We are grateful to Isaiah Andrews, Amy Finkelstein, Anna Mikusheva, and Heidi Williams for their guidance and sup-

                                           port. We thank Alberto Abadie, Jonathan Cohen, Nathan Hendren, Peter Hull, Guido Imbens, Yunan Ji, Sylvia Klosin,
                                           Kevin Kainan Li, Paichen Li, Therese A. McCarty, Whitney Newey, James Poterba, Pedro H. C. Sant’Anna, Gergely Ujhe-
                                           lyi and Helen Willis for helpful discussions. This research was supported by the National Institute on Aging, Grant Num-
                                           ber T32-AG000186. A preliminary draft of this paper was circulated on April 16, 2018. Replication code is available at
                                           http://economics.mit.edu/grad/lsun20/. The companion Stata package eventstudyweights is available from the SSC
                                           repository.
                                               † Department of Economics, MIT, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02139. Corresponding author; lsun20@mit.edu.
                                               ‡ Cornerstone Research, 699 Boylston St, Boston, MA 02116. The views expressed herein are solely those of the author, who is

                                           responsible for the content, and do not necessarily represent the views of Cornerstone Research.
