represent the observed outcome for unit i as

                                                            Õ
                                  Yi,t = Yi,tEi = Yi,t
                                                    ∞
                                                       +                      ∞
                                                                    (Yi,te −Yi,t ) · 1 {Ei = e} .            (2)
                                                           0≤e ≤T


      For any treatment that is not absorbing, if we replace the treatment status Di,t with an indicator for

ever having received the treatment, the new treatment is absorbing by construction. Oftentimes the effect

of having ever received the treatment is of interest, as it captures the path of treatment effects even though

the treatment itself may be transient. For example, Deryugina (2017) is interested in the fiscal cost for a

county that has been hit by a hurricane. While a hurricane itself may be transient, the impact of having

had a hurricane may not be transient, hence why Deryugina (2017) codes the year of the first hurricane

experienced in a county as Ei .

      In the next section, we use the notation developed above to define the treatment effect of an event study

design.


2.1     Defining treatment effect of an event study design

In an event study design, we define the unit-level treatment effect as the difference between the observed
                                                                      ∞ . Recall that Y ∞ denotes the potential
outcome relative to the never-treated counterfactual outcome: Yi,t −Yi,t               i,t
                                                                                         ∞ is a reasonable
outcome if unit i never receives the treatment. This particular counterfactual outcome Yi,t

“baseline outcome”, though other counterfactual outcomes may be of interest as well. For example, Athey

and Imbens (2018) also consider the treatment effect relative to the always-treated counterfactual outcome:
        0 . Sianesi (2004) defines the unit-level treatment effect to be relative to the not-yet-treated counter-
Yi,t −Yi,t

factual outcome: Yi,t −Yi,te for e > t.

      When dynamic treatment effects are of interest, empirical researchers commonly report the coefficient

         µ` associated with indicators for being ` periods relative to the treatment in regression (1) as an
estimate b

estimate for the average lagged effect. To assess the causal interpretation of µ` , we need “building blocks”

for its decomposition, which are the average of unit-level treatment effects at a given relative period across

units first treated at time Ei = e, i.e. units in the same cohort e. We call this average the cohort-specific

average treatment effects on the treated, formally defined below. Later in Section 3 we use them as building

blocks for the interpretation of the relative period coefficients µ` from two-way fixed effects regressions.

Definition 1. The cohort-specific average treatment effect on the treated (CATT) ` periods from initial

                                                                6
