there may or may not be never-treated units. Below in Section 3.1 we illustrate how the choice of G coincides

with a large number of specifications encountered in practice such as the “fully dynamic” specification. We

next decompose µg in terms of C ATTe,` when various combinations of the three identifying assumptions fail.

For Propositions 1-3, we state the results in terms of the general specification (4). To specialize these results

to the “fully dynamic” specification (7), we note the corresponding decomposition would replace bins with

g = {`} for each relative period ` included in the specification and g excl would contain all excluded relative

periods. The decomposition remains unchanged though the summation over ` ∈ g simplifies since each g is

a singleton. For Proposition 4, the decomposition further simplifies for the “fully dynamic” specification as

discussed below.

      Researchers may assume that µg can be interpreted as a convex average of C ATTe,` for periods ` ∈ g

from its corresponding set g; they may further assume the underlying weights have policy-relevant interpre-

tation, e.g. weights depending on proportions of cohorts. For example, Bailey and Goodman-Bacon (2015)

interpret them as “intention-to-treat effects” of the treatment in a given relative year. However, our results

show that µg may not represent the parameter of interest without strong assumptions such as treatment ef-

fect homogeneity. Section 3.6 provides intuition for these negative results, and demonstrate the weights

are actually non-linear functions of proportions of cohorts. Section 3.7 illustrates how treatment effects

heterogeneity invalidates the pretrends test for a simple three-period setting.


3.1     Common specifications

Common specifications can be broadly categorized as either “static” or “dynamic”. Static specifications

estimate a single treatment effect that is time invariant. In contrast, dynamic specifications allow for non-

parametric changes in the treatment effects over time. Within dynamic specifications, researchers also need

to address issues of multi-collinearity, and may bin or trim distant relative periods. All of these choices can

be written as instances of (4) with the correct specification of G, meaning that our results are applicable for

a wide range of specifications employed in the empirical literature.
                                                                ` B 1{t − E = `} to be an indicator for unit i
      To clarify how to specify G in regression (4), we define Di,t        i

                                                                                                        ` =0
being ` periods away from initial treatment at calendar time t. For never-treated units Ei = ∞, we set Di,t




                                                       11
